.\" @(#)backgammon.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH BACKGAMMON 6 "16 February 1988"
.SH NAME
backgammon \- the game of backgammon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B backgammon
[
\-
]
[
.B n
.B r
.B w
.B b
.B pr
.B pw
.B pb
.BI t term
.BI s filename
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "backgammon command"  ""  "\fLbackgammon\fP \(em backgammon game"
.LP
.B backgammon
lets you play backgammon against the computer or against a `friend'.
All commands only are one letter, so you don't need to type a carriage return,
except at the end of a move.
.B backgammon
is mostly self documenting, so that a q
.B ? 
(question mark) will usually get
some help.  If you answer 
.B y
when
.B backgammon
asks if you want the rules, you will get text explaining the rules of the game,
some hints on strategy, instruction on how to use
.B backgammon,
and a tutorial consisting of a practice game against the computer.
A description of how to use
.B backgammon
can be obtained by answering 
.B y 
when it asks if you want instructions.
The possible arguments for 
.B backgammon
(most are unnecessary but some are very convenient) consist of:
.RS
.TP 10
.B n
don't ask for rules or instructions
.TP
.B r
player is red (implies n)
.TP
.B w
player is white (implies n)
.TP
.B b
two players, red and white (implies n)
.TP
.B pr
print the board before red's turn
.TP
.B pw
print the board before white's turn
.TP
.B pb
print the board before both player's turn
.TP
.BI t term
terminal is type
.IR term ,
uses
.IR /etc/termcap ,
otherwise uses the
.SM TERM
environment variable.
.TP
.BI s filename
recover previously saved game from
.IR filename .
This can also be done by executing the saved file,
that is, typing its name in as a command.
.RE
.LP
Arguments may be optionally preceded by a
.B \-
sign.  Several arguments may
be concatenated together, but not after 
.B s 
or 
.B t 
arguments, since
they can be followed by an arbitrary string.  Any unrecognized
arguments are ignored.  An argument of a lone
.B \-
gets a description of possible arguments.
.LP
If
.B term
has capabilities for direct cursor movement.
.B backgammon
`fixes' the board after each move, so the board does not need to be
reprinted, unless the screen suffers some horrendous malady.  Also, any
`p' option will be ignored.
.SH QUICK\ REFERENCE
.LP
When
.B backgammon
prompts by typing only your color, type a space or carriage return to
roll, or
.RS
.TP
.B d
to double
.TP
.B p
to print the board
.TP
.B q
to quit
.TP
.B s
to save the game for later
.RE
.LP
When
.B backgammon
prompts with 'Move:', type
.RS	
.RS
.TP
.B p
to print the board
.TP
.B q
to quit
.TP
.B s
to save the game
.RE
.RE
.LP
or a
.I move,
which is a sequence of
.RS
.TP
.B s-f
move from
.B s
to
.B f
.TP
.B s/r
move one man on
.B s
the roll
.B r
separated by commas or spaces and ending with a newline.
Available abbreviations are
.RS
.TP
.B s-f1-f2
means
.B s-f1,f1-f2
.TP
.B s/r1r2
means
.B s/r1,s/r2
.RE
.RE
.LP
Use 
.B b 
for bar and 
.B h
for home, or 
.B 0 
or 
.B 25 
as appropriate.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
.B /usr/games/teachgammon	
rules and tutorial
.TP
.B /etc/termcap	
terminal capabilities
.PD
.SH BUGS
.LP
.BR backgammon 's
strategy needs much work.
