.\" @(#)battlestar.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD
.TH BATTLESTAR 6 "6 October 1989"
.SH NAME
battlestar \- a tropical adventure game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B battlestar
[
.B \-r
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "battlestar game" "" "\fLbattlestar\fP game"
.LP
.B battlestar
is an adventure game in the classic style.  However, it is slightly less
of a
puzzle and more a game of exploration.  There are a few magical words
in the game, but on the whole, simple English
should suffice to make one's desires understandable to the parser.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-r
Recover a saved game.
.SH "THE SETTING"
In the days before the darkness came, when battlestars ruled the
heavens...
.br
.nf
		Three He made and gave them to His daughters,
		Beautiful nymphs, the goddesses of the waters.
		One to bring good luck and simple feats of wonder,
		Two to wash the lands and churn the waves asunder,
		Three to rule the world and purge the skies with thunder.
.fi
.LP
In those times great wizards were known and their powers were beyond
belief.  They could take any object from thin air, and, uttering the
word
.RB ` su ',
could disappear.
.LP
In those times men were known for their lust of gold and desire to
wear fine weapons.  Swords and coats of mail were fashioned that could
withstand a laser blast.
.LP
But when the darkness fell, the rightful reigns were toppled.  Swords
and helms and heads of state went rolling across the grass.  The entire
fleet of battlestars was reduced to a single ship.
.SH USAGE
.SS Sample Commands
.nf
	take   	---	take an object
	drop	---	drop an object
	wear	---	wear an object you are holding
	draw	---	carry an object you are wearing
	puton	---	take an object and wear it
	take off  ---	draw an object and drop it
	throw  <object> <direction>
	!	<shell esc>
	
.fi
.SS Implied Objects
.nf
	>-: take watermelon
	watermelon:
	Taken.
	>-: eat
	watermelon:
	Eaten.
	>-: take knife and sword and apple, drop all
	knife:
	Taken.
	broadsword:
	Taken.
	apple:
	Taken.
	knife:
	Dropped.
	broadsword:
	Dropped.
	apple:
	Dropped.
	>-: get
	knife:
	Taken.
	
.fi
.LP
Notice that the \*(lqshadow\*(rq of the next word stays around if you
want to take advantage of it.  That is, saying
.RB ` "take knife" '
and then
.RB ` drop '
will drop the knife you just took.
.SS Score and Inven
.LP
The two commands 
.B score 
and 
.B inven 
will print out your current status in the game.
.SS  Saving a Game
.LP
The command 
.B save 
will save your game in a file called 
.BR Bstar . 
You can recover a saved game by using the 
.B \-r 
option when you start up the game.
.SS Directions
.LP
The compass directions N, S, E, and W can be used if you have a compass.
If you do not have a compass, you will have to say 
.BR R , 
.BR L , 
.BR A , 
or 
.BR B , 
which stand for Right, Left, Ahead, and Back.  Directions printed in room descriptions
are always printed in R, L, A, & B relative directions.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Countless.
