.\" @(#)canfield.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH CANFIELD 6 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
canfield, canfieldtool, cfscores \- Canfield solitaire card game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/canfield
[
.B \-ac
]
.LP
.B /usr/games/canfieldtool
[
.B \-ac
]
.LP
.B /usr/games/cfscores
[
.B \-ac
] [
.I username
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
These games are available with the
.I Games
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "canfield"  ""  "\fLcanfield\fP \(em solitaire card game"
.IX games canfield "" "\fLcanfield\fP \(em solitaire card game"
.LP
.B canfield
can be played on any terminal.
.B canfieldtool
is the SunView version with attractive graphics.
.LP
If you have never played solitaire before, it is recommended
that you consult a solitaire instruction book. In
.BR canfield ,
tableau cards may be built on each other downward
in alternate colors. An entire pile must be moved as a unit
in building. Top cards of the piles are available to be able
to be played on foundations, but never into empty spaces.
.LP
Spaces must be filled from the stock. The top card of
the stock also is available to be played on foundations or
built on tableau piles. After the stock is exhausted,
tableau spaces may be filled from the talon and the player may
keep them open until he wishes to use them.
.LP
Cards are dealt from the hand to the talon by threes
and this repeats until there are no more cards in the hand
or the player quits. To have cards dealt onto the talon the
player types
.B ht
for his move. Foundation base cards are
also automatically moved to the foundation when they become
available.
.SS Canfieldtool
Once you understand the rules,
.B canfieldtool
is self-explanatory.
.SS Canfield
.LP
The rules for betting are somewhat less strict than
those used in the official version of the game.
The initial deal costs $13.
You may quit at this point or inspect the game.
Inspection costs $13 and allows you to make as many
moves as is possible without moving any cards from your hand
to the talon.
(The initial deal places three cards on the talon;
if all these cards are used,
three more are made available.)
Finally, if the game seems interesting,
you must pay the final installment of $26.
At this point you are
credited at the rate of $5 for each card on the foundation;
as the game progresses you are credited with $5 for each
card that is moved to the foundation.
Each run through the hand after the first costs $5.
The card counting feature
costs $1 for each unknown card that is identified.
If the information is toggled on,
you are only charged for cards
that became visible since it was last turned on.
Thus the maximum cost of information is $34.
Playing time is charged at a rate of $1 per minute.
If the 
.B \-a
flag is specified,
it prints out the canfield accounts for all users that have
played the game since the database was set up.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B a
Print out
.B canfield
accounts for all users that have played the
game since the database was set up.
.TP
.B c
Maintain card counting statistics on the bottom of
the screen. When properly used this can greatly
increase the chances of winning.
.LP
With no arguments,
.B cfscores
prints out the current status of your canfield
account. If
.I username
is specified, it prints out the status of
their account.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/games/canfield
the game itself
.TP
.B /usr/games/lib/cfscores
the database of scores
.PD
.SH BUGS
It is impossible to cheat.
