.\" @(#)chesstool.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH CHESSTOOL 6 "18 February 1988"
.SH NAME
chesstool \- window-based front-end to chess program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/chesstool
[
.I chess_program
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This game is available for Sun-3 and Sun-4 systems,
with the
.I Games
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "chesstool"  ""  "\fLchesstool\fP \(em SunView chess game"
.IX  games chesstool  ""  "\fLchesstool\fP \(em SunView chess game"
.LP
.B chesstool
is a window-based front-end to the
.BR chess (6)
program.  Used without options,
.B chesstool
uses
\fB/usr/games/chess\fP;
you can designate any alternate program
which uses the same command syntax as
.BR chess (6)
with the
.I chess_program
argument.
.LP
When
.B chesstool
starts up, it displays a large window with three
subwindows.  The first subwindow displays messages
.RB ` "Illegal move" ',
for example.  The second subwindow is an options subwindow; options are
described below.  The final subwindow is a
chessboard display with white and
black pieces and two (advisory only) timekeeping clocks.
.LP
Make your moves with the mouse:  select a piece by positioning
the arrow cursor over the piece and
pressing the left mouse button down,
then drag the piece to the destination square, and release the button.
The cursor will then turn to an hourglass icon while the system plays.
.LP
Items in the subwindow may be selected
with either the left or middle mouse buttons.
These options are:
.TP 15
.B Last Play
Show the last play made.
.TP
.B Undo
Undo your last move and the machine's response.
.IP
Once the game is over, it is not possible to restart it,
so undo will update the board, but the game cannot be
continued from that position.
.TP
.B Flash
Flash when the machine has completed its move.
.IP
When this command is selected, a check mark will appear
next to the word
.BR Flash .
In flash mode, if
.B chesstool
is open, the piece moved by the system on its
play will flash until you make your move.
If
.B chesstool
is iconic, the entire icon will flash when the
machine has made its move.  Thus you can ``Close''
.B chesstool
and be alerted when it's your turn to
move.
To turn flash mode off, select flash again.
.TP
.B Machine White
Start a new game with the machine playing white.
.TP
.B Human White
Start a new game with the machine playing black.
.TP
.B Quit
Exit from
.BR chesstool .
.sp
.LP
There are two moves which are special:  castling and capturing
a pawn
.IR en passant .
To castle, move the king only.
The position of the rook will automatically
be updated.  Since the king moves two squares when castling,
the move is unambiguous.
To capture
.IR en passant ,
move the pawn to the square occupied by the opposing pawn which
will be captured.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chess (6)
