.\" @(#)ching.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH CHING 6 "16 February 1988"
.SH NAME
ching \- the book of changes and other cookies
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/ching
.RI [ hexagram ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ching command"  ""  "\fLching\fP \(em book of changes"
The
.I "I Ching"
or
.I "Book of Changes"
is an ancient Chinese oracle that has been in use for centuries
as a source of wisdom and advice.
.LP
The text of the
.I oracle
(as it is sometimes known) consists of sixty-four
.I hexagrams,
each symbolized by a particular arrangement of six straight (\-\-\-)
and broken (\-\ \-) lines.  These lines have values ranging
from six through nine, with the even values indicating the broken lines.
.LP
Each 
.I hexagram 
consists of two major sections.  The
.B  Judgement
relates specifically to the matter at hand (For instance, 
\*(lqIt furthers one to have somewhere to go.\*(rq) while the
.B  Image
describes the general attributes of the 
.I hexagram 
and how they apply
to one's own life (\*(lqThus the superior man makes himself strong
and untiring.\*(rq).
.LP
When any of the lines has the value six or nine, it is a moving line;
for any such line there is an appended judgement 
which becomes significant.
Furthermore, the moving lines are inherently unstable and
change into their opposites; a second 
.I hexagram
(and thus an additional judgement) is formed.
.LP
Normally, one consults the oracle by fixing the desired question
firmly in mind and then casting a set of changes (lines)
using yarrow\-stalks or tossed coins.  The resulting 
.I hexagram
will be the answer to the question.
.LP
Using an algorithm suggested by S. C. Johnson, this 
oracle  simply reads
a question from the standard input (up to an 
.SM EOF\s0)
and hashes the individual characters in combination with the
time of day, process ID and any other magic numbers 
which happen to be lying
around the system.  The resulting value is used as the seed
of a random number generator which drives a simulated 
coin\-toss divination.
The answer is then piped through
.BR nroff " for formatting"
and will appear on the standard output.
.LP
For those who wish to remain steadfast in the old traditions,
the oracle will also accept the results of a personal divination using,
for example, coins.  To do this, cast the change and then type the
resulting line values as an argument.
.LP
The impatient modern may prefer to settle for Chinese cookies; try
.BR fortune (6).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
It furthers one to see the great man.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
.nf
The great prince issues commands,
Founds states, vests families with fiefs.
Inferior people should not be employed.
.fi
.SH BUGS
.LP
.nf
Waiting in the mud
Brings about the arrival of the enemy.
.fi
.LP
.nf
If one is not extremely careful,
Somebody may come up from behind and strike him.
Misfortune.
.fi
