.\" @(#)craps.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD
.TH CRAPS 6 "16 February 1988"
.SH NAME
craps \- the game of craps
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/craps
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "craps game" "" "\fLcraps\fP game"
.LP
.B craps
is a form of the game of craps that is played in Las Vegas.
The program simulates the
.IR roller ,
while the user (the
.IR player )
places bets.
The player may choose, at any time, to bet with the roller or with the
.IR House .
A bet of a negative amount is taken as a bet with the House,
any other bet is a bet with the
roller.
.LP
The player starts off with a ``bankroll'' of $2,000.
.LP
The program prompts with:
.IP
.B bet?
.LP
The bet can be all or part of the player's bankroll.
Any bet over the total bankroll is rejected
and the program prompts with
.B bet?
until a proper bet is made.
.LP
Once the bet is accepted, the
roller throws the dice.
The following rules apply (the player wins or loses depending on
whether the bet is placed with the roller or with the
House; the odds are even).
The
.I first
roll is the roll immediately following a bet:
.IP
1. On the first roll:
.LP
.RS 20 
.PD 0
.TP 25
7\ or\ 11
wins for the roller;
.TP
2,\ 3,\ or\ 12
wins for the House;
.TP
any\ other\ number
is the
.IR point ,
roll again (Rule 2 applies).
.RE
.PD
.IP
2. On subsequent rolls:
.RS 20
.PD 0
.TP 25
point
roller wins;
.TP
7
House wins;
.TP
any\ other\ number
roll again.
.RE
.PD
.LP
If a player loses the entire bankroll,
the House
will offer to lend the player an additional $2,000.
The program will prompt:
.IP
.B marker?
.LP
A
.B yes
(or
.BR y )
consummates the loan.
Any other reply terminates the game.
.LP
If a player owes the House money,
the House reminds the player, before a bet is placed,
how many markers are
outstanding.
.LP
If, at any time, the bankroll of a player who has outstanding markers
exceeds $2,000, the House asks:
.IP
.B Repay marker?
.LP
A reply of
.B yes
(or
.BR y )
indicates the player's willingness to
repay the loan.
If only 1 marker is outstanding, it is immediately repaid.
However, if more than 1 marker are
outstanding, the House asks:
.IP
.B How many?
.LP
markers the player would like to repay.
If an invalid number is entered
(or just a carriage return),
an appropriate message is printed
and the program will prompt with
.B How\ many?
until a valid number is entered.
.LP
If a player accumulates 10 markers (a total of $20,000 borrowed from the House),
the program informs the player of the situation and exits.
.LP
Should the bankroll of a player who has outstanding markers
exceed $50,000, the
.I total
amount of money borrowed will be
.I automatically
repaid to the House.
.br
.ne 5
.LP
Any player who accumulates $100,000 or more
breaks the bank.
The program then prompts:
.IP
.B New game?
.LP
to give the House a chance to win back its money.
.LP
Any reply other than
.B yes
is considered to be a
.B no
(except in the case of
.B bet?
or
.BR How\ many? ).
To exit,
send an interrupt (break),
.SM DELETE
character or
.SM CTRL\-\s0D
The program will indicate whether the player won, lost, or broke even.
.SH MISCELLANEOUS
The random number generator for the die numbers uses the seconds from
the time of day.
Depending on system usage, these numbers, at times, may seem strange
but occurrences of this type in a real dice situation are not uncommon.
