.\" @(#)draw.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH DRAW 6 "8 March 1984"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
draw, bdraw, cdraw \- interactive graphics drawing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/demo/bdraw
.br
.B /usr/demo/cdraw
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "bdraw command"  ""  "\fLbdraw\fP \(em interactive graphics drawing" ""
.IX  "cdraw command"  ""  "\fLcdraw\fP \(em interactive graphics drawing" ""
.IX  "interactive graphics drawing"  ""  "interactive graphics drawing \(em \fLbdraw\fP" ""
.LP
The
.I draw
programs are menu-driven programs which use the mouse, keyboard, bitmap display
and optionally the color display to draw objects, drag them around, save them
on disk, and so on.
.B bdraw
is the draw program for the black and white display and
.B cdraw
is the program for driving the color display.
.LP
The main menu items are selected by moving the mouse cursor and pressing the
left mouse button.  To redraw the display, point at the left edge of the main
menu box and press the left button.  The main menu items are:
.IP "\fBNew Seg xlate\fP" 10
Open a new translatable segment. A segment is a collection of attributes and
primitives (lines, text, polygons, etc.).  A translatable segment may 
subsequently be positioned.
.IP "\fBNew Seg xform\fP" 10
Open a new transformable segment.  A transformable segment may subsequently
be rotated, scaled, or positioned.
.IP "\fBDelete Seg\fP" 10
To delete a segment, point at any primitive in the segment and press the left
button.
.IP "\fBLines\fP" 10
To add line primitives to the currently open segment, position cursor, press
the left button, ... press right button to quit.
.IP "\fBPolygon\fP" 10
To add a polygon primitive to the currently open segment, position the cursor,
press the left button, \fB.\|.\|.\fP press the right button to terminate
the boundary definition.  Polygons are filled with the current fill attribute.
.IP "\fBRaster\fP" 10
To add a raster primitive to the currently open segment, position the cursor,
press the left button to reposition the box, adjust the box by moving the
mouse, press the right button to create the raster primitive comprising the
boxed bitmap.  A `rasterfile' is also created on disk for hardcopy
purposes (see \fI/usr/include/rasterfile.h\fP).  This `rasterfile' file
may be spooled to a Versatec printer/plotter for  hardcopy after exiting
from the draw program.  The command to do this is \fBlpr\ \ \-v\ \ rasterfile\fP.
.IP "\fBText\fP" 10
To add a text primitive to the currently open segment, position cursor, press
left button, type the text string at the keyboard (back space works), hit
return.  Text is drawn with the current text attributes.
.IP "\fBMarker\fP" 10
To add marker primitives to the currently open segment, position cursor, press
the left button to place marker, ... press the right button to quit.
.IP "\fBPosition\fP" 10
To position a segment, point at any primitive in the segment, press left
button, position the segment, press right button to quit.
.IP "\fBRotate\fP" 10
To rotate a transformable segment, point at any primitive in the segment,
press left button, move mouse to rotate, press right button to quit.
.IP "\fBScale\fP" 10
To scale a transformable segment, point at any primitive in the segment, press
the left button, move mouse to scale in x or y, press right button to quit.
.IP "\fBAttributes\fP" 10
This item brings up the attribute menu.  To select an attribute such as text
font, region fill texture (color), linestyle, or line width, point at the
item and press the left button.  Point at the left edge of the menu box to
quit.
.IP "\fBSave Seg\fP" 10
To save a segment on a disk file, point at the segment, press the left button,
type the disk file name, hit return.
.br
.ne 5
.IP "\fBRestore Seg\fP" 10
To restore a previously saved segment from disk, type file name, hit return.
.IP "\fBExit\fP" 10
Exit the draw program.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Rasters and raster text do not scale or rotate.
If segments completely overlap, only the last one drawn may be picked by
pointing with the mouse.  This also applies to the menu segments!  Therefore,
don't cover them up with polygons.
If aborted with your interrupt character, you must give the 
`reset' command to turn
keyboard echo back on and to reset -cbreak.  Therefore, use the Exit item
in the main menu to exit the program.
