.\" @(#)gaintool.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new for 4.1
.TH GAINTOOL 6 "15 January 1990"
.SH NAME
gaintool \- audio control panel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gaintool
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is only available with the
.I Demos
installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "gaintool" "" "\fLgaintool\fR \(em audio control panel" ""
.IX "audio" "control panel" "audio" "control panel \(em \fLgaintool\fR"
.LP
.B gaintool
is a SunView demonstration program that controls various characteristics
of the
.SM SPARC\s0station 1
audio device,
see
.BR audio (4S).
Operations performed by
.B gaintool
affect all audio programs;
for instance, adjusting the
.B Play Volume
instantly changes the output gain, regardless of which program is playing.
.B gaintool
also detects audio state changes made by other programs,
and updates its display accordingly, keeping
.B gaintool
in sync with the current device configuration.
.LP
.B gaintool
demonstrates an important principle involved in the integration of
audio in the desktop environment:
by enabling global control of important
characteristics, it is not necessary for every application to
provide an interface for these parameters.
For instance, since audio output
may be paused from the control panel, it is not strictly necessary that
output applications display a
.B Pause
button of their own.
However, such applications may detect that audio
output has been paused, and take appropriate action.
.SS Control Panel
.TP
.B "Play Volume"
This slider adjusts the output volume.
Volume levels between 0 and 100 may be selected, where 0 represents
infinite attenuation and 100 is maximum gain.
.TP
.B "Record Volume"
This slider adjusts the recording gain level in the range 0 to 100.
.TP
.B "Monitor Volume"
This slider adjusts the monitor gain level in the range 0 to 100.
Monitor gain controls the amount of audio input signal that is
fed through to the output port.
For instance, if an audio source
(such as a radio or
.SM CD\s0-player)
is connected directly to the input port,
the input signal may be monitored
through either the built-in speaker or the headphone jack.
.TP
.B Output
This selector switches the audio output port between
the built-in speaker and the external headphone jack.
.TP
.B "Pause Play"
This button may be used to suspend and resume audio output.
If audio output is in progress when
.B Pause
is clicked, it is stopped immediately and subsequent output data remains
queued.
The button then switches to a
.B Resume
button that, when clicked, resumes audio output at the point that
it was suspended.
.IP
If no process has the device open for output when
.B Pause
is clicked,
.B gaintool
holds the device open itself, thereby denying other processes output access.
Audio programs that simply open and write to the audio device will
typically be suspended when they attempt to open the device.
Programs that asynchronously poll the device will discover that it is
\*(lqbusy\*(rq and may take appropriate action.
.SS "Audio Device Status Panel"
.IP
Pressing the
.SB PROPS
(L3) key brings up a status panel that shows the current state
with the
its display accordingly,
audio applications.
Selecting \*(lqDone\*(rq from the panel menu
(or pressing the (L7) key) removes the panel.
.IP
Ordinarily, the device status is updated only when a
.SB SIGPOLL
signal is delivered to
.B gaintool 
(see
.BR audio (4S)).
Because of this, the
.B Active
and 
.B Samples
indicators are not necessarily kept up-to-date.
However, when the mouse is positioned over the panel, status is
continually updated.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audio (4S),
.BR soundtool (6)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B Record Volume
should be controlled by a separate panel that also provides automatic
gain level adjustment capabilities.
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
This program is furnished on an
.I "as is"
basis as a demonstration
of audio applications programming.
