.\" @(#)gammontool.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH GAMMONTOOL 6 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
gammontool \- play a game of backgammon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/gammontool
[
.I path
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
This game is available with the
.I Games
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX games gammontool "" "\fLgammontool\fR \(em SunView backgammon game"
.IX gammontool "" "\fLgammontool\fR \(em SunView backgammon game"
.LP
.B gammontool
paints a backgammon board on the screen,
and then lets you play against the computer.
It must be run in SunWindows.  The optional
.I path
argument specifies an alternate move-generating program,
which must be specially designed to run with
.BR gammontool .
.LP
The game has three subwindows: an option window on top,
a message window in the middle, and a large board on the bottom.
The buttons in the option window are used to restart, double, etc.
The message window has two lines: the first tells whose turn it is,
and the second displays any errors that occur.
.SS The Initial Roll
.LP
To start the game, roll the dice to determine who goes first.
Move the mouse arrow onto the board and click the left button.
One die appears on each side of the board:
the die on the left is yours,
and the die on the right is the computer's.
If your roll is greater, then you move;
if not, the computer makes a move.
.SS Making Your Move
.LP
When it is your turn,
.RB ` Your move '
appears in the message window.
Place the mouse over any piece of your color,
and click the left button.
While holding down the button, move the mouse to drag the piece;
the piece follows the mouse until you release the button.
The tool checks each move and does not allow illegal moves.
When you have made as many moves as you can,
the computer takes its turn; after it finishes,
you may either roll again, or double.
.TP
.I Doubling
To double, click the
.I Double
button in the option window and wait for the computer's response.
If the computer doubles you, a message is
displayed and you must answer with the
.B Accept\ Double
or
.B Refuse\ Double
buttons.  The
.B Forfeit
button can also be used to refuse a double.
If the game is doubled, a doubling cube with the proper value
is displayed on the bar strip.  If the number is facing up,
then you may double next.  If the number is upside down,
it is the computer's turn to double.
.TP
.I Other Buttons
If you want to change your move before you have finished it, use the
.B Redo\ Move
or
.B Redo\ Entire\ Move
buttons in the option window.
.B Redo\ Entire\ Move
replaces all of the pieces you have moved so that you can redo them all.
.B Redo\ Move
only replaces the last piece you moved, so it is useful when you roll
doubles and want to redo only the last piece you moved.  Note that
once you have made all of the moves your roll permits, play passes
immediately to the computer, so you cannot
redo the very last move.
The
.B Show\ Last\ Move
button allows you to see the last move again.
.LP
.SS Leaving the Game
If you want to quit playing backgammon, use the
.B Quit
button.  If you want to forfeit the game, use the
.B Forfeit
button.  The computer penalizes you by taking a certain number
of points, but the program does not terminate.
.LP
To play another game after winning, losing, or forfeiting, click
the
.B New\ Game
button.  To change the color of your pieces, click the mouse button
while pointing at either the
.B White
or
.B Black
checkboxes.  You may change colors at any time, even in the middle of
a game.  Changing colors in the middle of a game does not mean that you
trade places with the computer; your pieces stay where they are, but
they are repainted with the new color.  Your pieces always
move from the top right to the bottom right of the board, regardless
of your color.  As an additional cue as to your color, your dice are
always displayed on the left half of the board.
.LP
.SS Log File
If a there is a
.B gammonlog
file your home directory,
.B gammontool
keeps a log of the games played.
Each move and double gets recorded,
along with the winners and accumulated scores.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B ~/gammonlog
log of games played
.ne 3
.TP
.B /usr/games/lib/gammonscores
log of wins and losses
.PD
.SH BUGS
The default strategy used by the computer is very poor.
.LP
If a single move uses more than one die (for
instance if you roll 5, 6 and
move 11 spaces without touching down
in the middle) it is unpredictable
where the program will make the piece touch down.
This may be important
if there is a blot on one of these middle points.  The program will
always make the move if possible, but if two midpoints would work and
there is a blot on one of them, it is much better to explicitly hit
the blot and then move the piece the rest of the way.
