.\" @(#)graphics_demos.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH GRAPHICS_DEMOS 6 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
graphics_demos, bouncedemo, framedemo, jumpdemo, spheresdemo, \- graphics demonstration programs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/demo/bouncedemo
.RB [ " \-d \fIdev " ]
.RB [ " \-n\fIx " ]
.RB [ " \-r " ]
.RB [ " \-q " ]
.\".LP
.\".B /usr/demo/cframedemo
.\".RB [ " \-d \fIdev " ]
.\".RB [ " \-n\fIx " ]
.\".RB [ " \-r " ]
.\".RB [ " \-q " ]
.LP
.B /usr/demo/framedemo
.RB [ " \-d \fIdev " ]
.RB [ " \-n\fIx " ]
.RB [ " \-r " ]
.RB [ " \-q " ]
.\".LP
.\".B /usr/demo/goban
.\".I game
.LP
.B /usr/demo/jumpdemo
.RB [ " \-c " ]
.RB [ " \-d \fIdev " ]
.RB [ " \-n\fIx " ]
.RB [ " \-r " ]
.RB [ " \-q " ]
.\".LP
.\".B /usr/demo/maze
.\".LP
.\".B shaded
.\".I object
.\".RB [ " \-d \fIdev " ]
.\".LP
.\".B /usr/demo/show
.\".IR rasterfile " [ " rasterfile " .\|.\|. ]"
.\".LP
.\".B /usr/demo/showmap
.\".RB [ " \-d \fIdev " ]
.\".RB [ " \-q " ]
.LP
.BR /usr/demo/spheresdemo
.RB [ " \-d \fIdev " ]
.RB [ " \-n\fIx " ]
.RB [ " \-r " ]
.RB [ " \-q " ]
.\".LP
.\".B /usr/demo/stringart
.\".RB [ " \-d \fIdev " ]
.\".RB [ " \-q " ]
.\".LP
.\".B /usr/demo/suncube
.\".RB [ " \-d \fIdev " ]
.\".RB [ " \-q " ]
.SH AVAILABILITY
These demos are available with the
.I Demos
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX demos graphics_demos
.IX demos bouncedemo "" "\fLbouncedemo\fR \(em bouncing square graphics demo"
.IX bouncedemo "" "\fLbouncedemo\fR \(em bouncing square graphics demo"
.\".IX demos cframedemo "" "\fLcframedemo\fR \(em graphics demo"
.\".IX cframedemo "" "\fLcframedemo\fR \(em graphics demo"
.IX demos framedemo "" "\fLframedemo\fR \(em graphics demo"
.IX framedemo "" "\fLframedemo\fR \(em graphics demo"
.\".IX demos goban "" "\fLgoban\fR \(em go board graphics demo"
.\".IX goban "" "\fLgoban\fR \(em go board graphics demo"
.IX demos jumpdemo "" "\fLjumpdemo\fR \(em graphics demo"
.IX jumpdemo "" "\fLjumpdemo\fR \(em graphics demo"
.\".IX demos maze "" "\fLmaze\fR \(em graphics demo"
.\".IX maze "" "\fLmaze\fR \(em graphics demo"
.\".IX demos shaded "" "\fLshaded\fR \(em graphics demo"
.\".IX shaded "" "\fLshaded\fR \(em graphics demo"
.\".IX demos show "" "\fLshow\fR \(em graphics demo"
.\".IX show "" "\fLshow\fR \(em graphics demo"
.\".IX demos showmap "" "\fLshowmap\fR \(em graphics demo"
.\".IX showmap "" "\fLshowmap\fR \(em graphics demo"
.IX demos spheresdemo "" "\fLspheresdemo\fR \(em graphics demo"
.IX spheresdemo "" "\fLspheresdemo\fR \(em graphics demo"
.\".IX demos stringart "" "\fLstringart\fR \(em graphics demo"
.\".IX stringart "" "\fLstringart\fR \(em graphics demo"
.\".IX demos suncube "" "\fLsuncube\fR \(em graphics demo"
.\".IX suncube "" "\fLsuncube\fR \(em graphics demo"
.SS bouncedemo
.LP
.B bouncedemo
displays a bouncing square.
.\".ig
.\".SS cframedemo
.\".LP
.\".B cframedemo
.\"displays a series of color frames, each of which contains a 256
.\"by 256 image of eight-bit-deep pixels.
.\".B cframedemo
.\"looks for the frames in the files
.\".B frame.1
.\"through
.\".B frame.n
.\"in the current working directory, and displays
.\"them in numerical order.  When run in the directory
.\".BR /usr/demo/globeframes ,
.\".B cframedemo
.\"displays a rotating view of the world.
.\"..
.SS framedemo
.B framedemo
.LP
displays a series of frames, each of which contains a 256 by 256 image
one-bit-deep pixels (that is, the image is a square monochrome bitmap,
with 256 bits on a side).
.B framedemo
looks for the frames in the files
.B frame.1
through
.B frame.n
in the current working directory, and displays
them in numerical order.  A set of sample frames is available
in the directory
.BR /usr/demo/globeframes/* .
.SS \fIInteractive Commands\fR
.LP
If you move the cursor onto the image surface,  you can type certain
commands to affect the rate at which the frames are displayed. The
initial rate is one frame per second:
.TP
.B f
Remove 1/20th of a second from the interval.
.TP
.B F
Remove one second from the interval.
.B Ff
makes the interval as small as possible.
.TP
.B s
Add 1/20th of a second.
.TP
.B S
Add one second.
.\".ig
.\".SS goban
.\".LP
.\".B goban
.\"is Japanese for \*(lqgo board\*(rq.  It is an automatic board, but
.\"does not play go.  If you invoke it with no
.\".I game
.\"argument,
.\".B goban
.\"displays an important historical game written
.\"about by the Nobel Prize winning author, Yasunari Kawabata in
.\".I "The Master of Go,"
.\"a book which conveys the spirit of this ancient and fascinating game.
.\".LP
.\"Stones are placed on the board by selecting a grid point with
.\"the cursor and clicking the
.\".SM LEFT
.\"mouse button.  As stones are played,
.\"the color to play next alternates between black and white.
.\"The i
.\".SM MIDLE
.\"mouse button, when clicked in the board area, backs up a move
.\"(undoes it).  The 
.\".SM RIGHT
.\"mouse button moves
.\"forward through the game's sequence of moves.
.\".LP
.\"Stepping backward and forward does not alter the game until the
.\".SM LEFT
.\"mouse button is clicked to place a stone,
.\"at which time a new branch in the
.\"line of play is begun.  You can select branches by clicking the
.\".SM LEFT
.\"mouse button on moves with lettered labels on the board.
.\".LP
.\"A text subwindow displays any commentary
.\"attached to a move.  You can edit
.\"these comments, which are saved along with the game.
.\"..
.SS jumpdemo
.LP
.B jumpdemo
simulates the famous
.B Star Wars
jump to light-speed-sequence using
vector drawing.  Colored stars are drawn on color surfaces.
.\".ig
.\".SS maze
.\".B maze
.\"creates a random maze-pattern and tries a depth-first solution.
.\"If used in lockscreen, remember to run in \*(lqnice\*(rq mode since this
.\"demo consumes lots of cpu cycles.
.\".SS Shaded
.\".LP
.\".B shaded
.\"displays shaded objects.  Objects are located in
.\".B usr/demo/\s-1DATA\s0
.\"and include an icosahedron, glass, soccer ball, space shuttle,
.\"egg and pyramid.  This demo can take up to 40 seconds to start
.\"up with som objects.  Mouse input is required:
.\".LP
.\".SS \fIInteractive Commands\fR
.\".LP
.\"Click the
.\".SM LEFT
.\"and
.\".SM MIDDLE
.\"mouse buttons on the left grid to set the
.\"x-y orientation.  Click the
.\".SM MIDDLE
.\"mouse button on the right grid to
.\"set the z orientation.  Click the
.\".SM LEFT
.\"mouse button away from either
.\"grid to open the features menu, from which you can make selections
.\"using the
.\".SM LEFT
.\"mouse button.
.\".LP
.\"After selecting the desired features, click the
.\".SM LEFT
.\"mouse button away
.\"from all objects to exit the features menu.
.\".LP
.\"Click the
.\".SM RIGHT
.\"mouse button to begin drawing the object.  When the
.\"figure is finished, click the 
.\".SM RIGHT
.\"mouse button to return to the
.\"grids and menu, or type
.\".B q
.\"to exit.
.\".SS show
.\".LP
.\".B show
.\"display rasterfiles in a window or on a raw screen.
.\"Sample files are contained in the directory
.\".BR /usr/demo/\s-1COLORPIX\s0 .
.\"Running
.\".RS
.\".B "show \s-1COLORPIX\s0/*"
.\".RE
.\"from
.\".B /usr/demo
.\"will continuously cycle through the sample images.
.\"..
.SS spheresdemo
.LP
.B spheresdemo
computes a random collection of shaded spheres.
Colored spheres are drawn on color surfaces.
.\".ig
.\".SS showmap
.\".LP
.\".B showmap
.\"display 10 map projections continuously until interrupted.
.\"Each map is displayed for about 5 seconds.
.\"The maps are in the directory
.\".BR /usr/demo/\s-1MAPS\s0 .
.\".SS stringart
.\".B stringart
.\"continuously display a different "work of art" every 5 seconds.
.\"A total of 24336 different designs are possible.  On color surfaces
.\"the designs will loop through the colors: red, olive, green, turquoise,
.\"blue, and violet.
.\".SS suncube
.\".LP
.\"Display a cube with the
.\".SM SUN
.\"logo mapped to each face.  Will run continuously until interrupted.
.\"On color surfaces the colors of logo segments change gradually.  On
.\"monochrome surfaces the logo segments remain hollow.
.\"..
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
Rotate the color map to produce a sparkling effect.
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-d " surface"
Run the demo on a surface other than the window or system console,
for instance:
.RS
.IP
.B bouncedemo \-d /dev/cgone0
.RE
.TP
.BI \-n x
Draw
.I x
items, or repeat a sequence
.I x
times.
.TP
.B \-r
Retain the window.  This allows the image to reappear
when uncovered instead of restarting the demo.
.TP
.B \-q
Quick exit.  Useful for running several demos from within a
shell script.
.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\".BR gfxtool (1),
.\".BR gp_demos (6)
