.\" @(#)life.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH LIFE 6  "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
life \- John Conway's game of life
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/life
.SH AVAILABILITY
This game is available with the
.I Games
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX games life "" "\fLlife\fR \(em SunView game of life"
.IX life "" "\fLlife\fR \(em SunView game of life"
.LP
.B life
is a program that plays John Conway's game of life.  It only
runs under
.BR sunview (1).
.LP
When invoked,
.BR life
will display a window with a small control panel at the top,
and a large drawing area at the bottom.
You can create pieces in the drawing
area with the left button, and erase them with the middle button.
When you select
.B Run
in the control panel, the pieces will begin to evolve,
and the drawing region will update itself
at a speed controlled by the slider
labeled with
.B Fast
and
.BR Slow .
.B life
keeps track of all the pieces even if they are
not visible.  The scroll bars surrounding the drawing region
can be used to see pieces that have moved out of view.
There are some standard patterns that can be drawn
by popping up a menu in the drawing subwindow.
.LP
The meaning of the items in the first
row of the control panel (from left to right) are as follows.
If you click on the picture which looks like a tic-tac-toe
board, a grid will appear in the drawing region.  If you
click on
.BR Step ,
the mode will change from run mode (where
the pieces update continuously) to step mode (where an update
is only done when you click on
\fBStep\fP).
Following
.B Gen
is a number indicating the number of generations
that have occurred.  The button marked
.B Find
will scroll so that at least one piece
is in view.  This is useful when all the pieces disappear from view.
The button marked
.B Clear
will clear the drawing
region, but leave the other controls unchanged.
.B Reset
will reset all the panel controls, but
will not erase any of the pieces, and
.B Quit
Exits the tool.
The second row contains two sliders.  The first controls
the update speed when in run mode, the second controls
the size of the pieces.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sunview (1)
