.\" @(#)monop.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.de Sc		\" start command list macro
.ie n .PD 0
.el .PD 0.5
.sp
..
.de Cm		\" define command macro
.TP 10
.ie t .BR "\\$1" :
.el .IR "\\$1" :
..
.de Ec		\" end command macro
.PD 1
..
.TH MONOP 6 "16 February 1988"
.SH NAME
monop \- Monopoly game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/monop
.RI [ filename ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.IX  "monop command"  ""  "\fLmonop\fP \(em Monopoly game"
.B monop
is reminiscent of the Parker Brother's game Monopoly, and
monitors a game between 1 to 9 users.
It is assumed that the rules of Monopoly are known.
The game follows the standard rules, with the exception that,
if a property would go up for auction and there are only two solvent players,
no auction is held and the property remains unowned.
.LP
The game, in effect, lends the player money,
so it is possible to buy something which you cannot afford.
However, as soon as a person goes into debt,
he must \*(lqfix the problem\*(rq,
that is, 
make himself solvent, before play can continue.
If this is not possible, the player's property reverts to his debtee,
either a player or the bank.
A player can resign at any time to any person or the bank,
which puts the property back on the board, unowned.
.LP
Any time that the response to a question is a
.IR string ,
for instance a name, place or person, you can type 
.B ? 
to get a list of valid answers.
It is not possible to input a negative number, nor is it ever necessary.
.SH USAGE
.SS Commands
.TP
.B quit:
Quit game.
This allows you to quit the game.  It asks you if you are sure.
.TP
.B print
Print board. This prints out the current board.
The columns have the following meanings (column headings are the same for the
.BR where ,
.BR "own holdings" ,
and
.B holdings
commands):
.LP
.RS 10
.TP 12
Name
The first ten characters of the name of the square
.TP
Own
The
.I number
of the owner of the property.
.TP
Price
The cost of the property (if any)
.TP
Mg
This field has a
.RB ` * '
in it if the property is mortgaged
.TP
#
If the property is a Utility or Railroad, this is the number
of such owned by the owner.
If the property is land, this is the number of houses on it.
.TP
Rent
Current rent on the property.  If it is not owned, there is no rent.
.RE
.TP
.B where:
where players are: Tells you where all the players are.
A
.RB ` * '
indicates the current player.
.TP
.B "own holdings":
List your own holdings,
that is, money, get-out-of-jail-free cards, and property.
.TP
.B holdings:
Holdings list. Look at anyone's holdings.
It will ask you whose holdings you wish to look at.
When you are finished, type 
.BR done .
.TP
.B shell:
Shell escape. Escape to a shell.  When the shell dies,
the program continues where you left off.
.TP
.B mortgage:
Mortgage property.
Sets up a list of mortgageable property, and asks which you wish to mortgage.
.TP
.B unmortgage:
Unmortgage property.
Unmortgage mortgaged property.
.TP
.B buy:
Buy houses.
Sets up a list of monopolies on which you can buy houses.
If there is more than one, it asks you which you want to buy for.
It then asks you how many for each piece of property,
giving the current amount in parentheses after the property name.
If you build in an unbalanced manner
(a disparity of more than one house within the same monopoly),
it asks you to re-input things.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B sell:
Sell houses.
Sets up a list of monopolies from which you can sell houses.
it operates in an analogous manner to
.B buy
.TP
.B card:
Card for jail.
Use a get-out-of-jail-free card to get out of jail.
If you are not in jail, or you do not have one, it tells you so.
.TP
.B pay:
Pay for jail.
Pay $50 to get out of jail, from whence you are put on Just Visiting.
Difficult to do if you are not there.
.TP
.B trade:
This allows you to trade with another player.
It asks you whom you wish to trade with,
and then asks you what each wishes to give up.
You can get a summary at the end, and, in all cases,
it asks for confirmation of the trade before doing it.
.TP
.B resign:
Resign to another player or the bank.
If you resign to the bank, all property reverts to its virgin state,
and get-out-of-jail free cards revert to the deck.
.TP
.B save:
Save game.
Save the current game in a file for later play.
You can continue play after saving,
either by adding the file in which you saved the game after the
.B monop
command, or by using the
.B restore
command (see below).
It will ask you which file you wish to save it in,
and, if the file exists, confirm that you wish to overwrite it.
.TP
.B restore:
Restore game.
Read in a previously saved game from a file.
It leaves the file intact.
.TP
.B roll:
Roll the dice and move forward to your new location.
If you simply hit the 
.SM RETURN
key instead of a command,
it is the same as typing
.IR roll .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /usr/games/lib/cards.pck	
chance and community chest cards
.PD
.SH BUGS
.LP
No command can be given an argument instead of a response to a query.
