.\" @(#)play.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH PLAY 6 "10 January 1990"
.SH NAME
play \- play audio files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B play 
[
.B \-i
] [
.B \-V
] [
.BI \-d " dev"
] [
.BI \-v " vol"
] [
.IR filename \|.\|.\|.
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is only available with the
.I Demos
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "play" "" "\fLplay\fP \(em play audio files" ""
.IX "audio" "play audio files" "audio" "play audio files \(em \fLplay\fP"
.LP
.B play
copies the named audio files to the audio device.
Audio files named on the command line are played sequentially.
If no filenames are present, the
standard input stream is played.
The special filename
.RB ` \- '
may be used to read the
standard input stream instead of a file.
.LP
The input files (including the standard input)
must contain a valid audio file header.
The encoding
information in this header is matched against the capabilities of the
audio device and, if the data formats are incompatible, an error message
is printed and the file is skipped.
.LP
Minor deviations in sampling frequency (those less than 1%) are ordinarily
ignored.
This allows, for instance, data sampled at 8012 Hz to be played
on an audio device that only supports 8000 Hz.
If the
.B \-V
option is specified, such deviations are flagged with warning messages.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-i
Print an error message and exit immediately if the audio device
is unavailable (that is, another process currently has write access).
.B play
will ordinarily wait until it can obtain access to the device.
.TP
.B \-V
Verbose.
Print messages to the standard error
while waiting for access to the audio device or when sample rate
deviations are detected.
.TP
.BI \-d " dev"
Specify an alternate audio device to which output should be directed.
If the
.B \-d
option is not specified,
.B /dev/audio
is the default audio device.
.TP
.BI \-v " vol"
Set the output volume to
.I vol
before playing begins.
.I vol
is an integer value between 0 and 100, inclusive.
If this argument is not specified, the output volume remains at the
level most recently set by any process.
.TP
.B \-?
Help.
Print a command line usage message.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR record (6)
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
This program is furnished on an 
.I as is
basis as a demonstration
of audio applications programming.
