.\" @(#)raw2audio.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH RAW2AUDIO 6 "10 January 1990"
.SH NAME
raw2audio \- convert raw audio data to audio file format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B raw2audio 
[
.B \-f
] [
.BI \-c " chan"
] [
.BI \-e " enc"
] [
.BI \-i " info"
] [
.BI \-o " cnt"
] [
.BI \-p " bits"
] [
.BI \-s " rate"
] [
.IR filename \|.\|.\|.
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is only available with the
.I Demos
installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "raw2audio" "" "\fLraw2audio\fP \(em convert raw audio data to audio file format" ""
.LP
.B raw2audio
adds an audio file header to the named raw data files.
The encoding information in this header is taken from the command line options.
.LP
If no filenames are specified,
.B raw2audio
reads raw data from the
standard input stream and writes an audio file to
the standard output.
If a target file is a symbolic link, the underlying file will be rewritten.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-f
Force.
If an input file already contains an audio file header,
.B raw2audio
ordinarily prints a warning message and skips the file.
If the
.B \-f
flag is specified, the old file header,
including the `information' field, is replaced.
.TP
.BI \-c " chan"
Specify the number of interleaved audio channels in
each sample frame.
If not specified, a single channel is assumed.
.TP
.BI \-e " enc"
Specify the encoding type.
.I enc
may be one of the following:
.BR \s-1ULAW\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LINEAR\s0 ,
or
.BR \s-1FLOAT\s0 ,
corresponding to \(*m-law, integer
.BR \s-1PCM\s0 ,
and
.SM IEEE
floating-point formats, respectively.
If not specified, \(*m-law encoding is assumed.
.TP
.BI \-i " info"
Specify the 
`information' field of the output file header.
.TP
.BI \-o " cnt"
Specify the number of bytes to skip in the audio
data stream.
This option may be used, for instance, to extract audio data
from files containing unrecognizable file headers.
.TP
.BI \-s " rate"
Specify the sample rate frequency, in Hz.
If not specified, the sample rate defaults to 8000 Hz.
.TP
.BI \-p " bits"
Specify the sound unit size, in bits.
If not specified, the precision defaults to 8 bits.
.TP
.B \-?
Help.
Print a command line usage message.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR play (6),
.BR record (6)
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
This program is furnished on an 
.I as is
basis as a demonstration
of audio applications programming.
