.\" @(#)record.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH RECORD 6 "10 January 1990"
.SH NAME
record \- record an audio file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B record 
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-f
] [
.BI \-d " dev"
] [
.BI \-i " info"
] [
.BI \-t " time"
] [
.BI \-v " vol"
] [
.IR filename
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is only available with the
.I Demos
installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "record" "" "\fLrecord\fP \(em record an audio file" ""
.IX "audio" "record audio file" "audio" "record audio file \(em \fLrecord\fP"
.LP
.B record
copies audio data from the audio device to a named audio file.
The output file will be prefixed by an audio file header.
The encoding information in this header is taken from the
configuration of the audio device.
If no filename is present, or if the
special filename
.RB ` \- '
is specified, output is directed to the
standard output stream.
.LP
Recording begins immediately and continues until a
.SB SIGINT
signal (\s-1CTRL-C\s0) is received.
If the
.B \-t
option is specified,
.I record
stops when the specified quantity of data has been recorded.
.LP
If the audio device is unavailable
(that is, another process currently has read access),
.B record
prints an error message and exits immediately.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-a
Append the data on the end of the named audio file.
The audio encoding of the file must match the audio device configuration.
.TP
.B \-f
Force.
When the
.B \-a
flag is specified, the sample rate of the audio file must match
the device configuration.  If the
.B \-f
flag is also specified, sample rate differences are ignored, with a warning
message printed to the standard error.
.TP
.BI \-d " dev"
Specify an alternate audio device from which input should be
taken.
If the
.B \-d
option is not specified,
.B /dev/audio
is used as the default audio device.
.TP
.BI \-i " info"
The `information' field of the output file header is set to the string
specified by the
.I info
argument.
This option may not be specified in conjunction with the
.B \-a
argument.
.TP
.BI \-t " time"
The
.I time
argument specifies the maximum length of time to record.
Time may be specified as a floating-point value,
indicating the number of seconds,
or in the form:
.IB hh : mm : ss .\fBdd\fR,
where hour and minute specifications are optional.
.TP
.BI \-v " vol"
Specify the recording gain.
.I vol
is an integer value between 0 and 100, inclusive.
If this argument is not specified, the input volume will remain at the
level most recently set by any process.
.TP
.B \-?
.IR Help :
Print a command line usage message.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR play (6)
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
This program is furnished on an 
.I as is
basis as a demonstration
of audio applications programming.
