.\" @(#)rotcvph.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH ROTCVPH 6 "16 February 1988"
.SH NAME
rotcvph \- rotate convex polyhedron
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI /usr/demo/rotcvph filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "rotcvph convex" "" "\fLrotcvph\fP \(em rotate convex polyhedron" ""
.IX rotate "convex polyhedron"
.IX polyhedron rotate
.LP
.B rotcvph
rotates a convex polyhedron with hidden surfaces removed.
Using the SunCore Graphics Package, a 3-D projection
is drawn on the Sun Monochrome Bitmap Display.
The mandatory file argument contains a polygonal object definition as
described below.
.LP
Initially the program displays a fixed view of the object.  The following
commands may be typed at any time:
.RS
.TP
.B n
Display successive views with no waiting.
.TP
.B w
Wait for
.SM SPACE 
to be typed before displaying each view.
.TP
.B q
Exit the program.
.RE
.LP
The format of the polygonal object definition is illustrated by this example
of the definition of a pyramid:
.IP
	5	5
.br
-1.0 1.0 -1.0 1.0 -1.0 1.0
.br
1.0  1.0 -1.0
.br
1.0 -1.0 -1.0
.br
-1.0 -1.0 -1.0
.br
-1.0  1.0 -1.0
.br
0.0  0.0  1.0
.br
4	4 3 2 1
.br
3	1 5 4
.br
3	2 5 1
.br
3	3 5 2
.br
3	4 5 3
.LP
The first line gives the number of vertices followed by the number of
polygons.  The second line gives the coordinates of a bounding box for the
object.  Minimum and maximum coordinate values are given for each of three
dimensions in the order 
.IR minx , 
.IR maxx , 
.IR miny , 
.IR maxy , 
.IR minz , 
.IR maxz .  
Lines 3 through
v+2 (where v is the number of vertices) give vertex coordinates in the order
.IR x , 
.IR y , 
,IR z .  
Lines v+3 through v+p+2 (where p is the number of polygons) give
polygon descriptions.  The first number is the number of vertices for the
polygon.  Succeeding numbers on the line are indices into the vertex list.
Polygons should be planar.  Coordinates are given in floating point format
and everything else is integer.  Entries on a given line are separated by
arbitrary whitespace. A maximum of 400 vertices and 400 polygons may be
defined. The polygon definitions may contain a maximum of 1600 instances of
the vertices.
.B /usr/demo/data
contains several object definition files, including
.BR icosa.dat ,
.BR socbal.dat ,
and
.BR pyramid.dat .
.LP
The above format may be used to define non-convex 
objects.  The program will
display these objects but hidden surface 
computations will not be done correctly.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
.B /usr/demo/data/*.dat	
sample object definition files
.TP
.B icosa.dat
.TP
.B socbal.dat
.TP
.B pyramid.dat
.PD
.br
.ne 9
.SH BUGS
.LP
All floating point transformations are done twice
for each view, once to draw the object and once to undraw it.
.LP
Lines which are common to two visible polygons
in a view are drawn twice, once for each polygon.
