.\" @(#)soundtool.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SOUNDTOOL 6 "10 January 1990"
.SH NAME
soundtool \- audio play/record tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B soundtool
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is only available with the
.I Demos
installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "soundtool" "" "\fLsoundtool\fP \(em audio play/record tool" ""
.LP
.B soundtool
is a SunView demonstration program that allows recording, playing, and
simple editing of audio data.
The display consists of six regions:
a play/record control panel,
a function control panel,
an oscilloscope,
a display control panel,
a waveform display panel,
and a pop-up audio status panel.
.SS Play/Record Control Panel
.TP
.B Play/Stop
Clicking this button plays the currently selected region of data.
While data is playing this button becomes a
.B Stop
button.
If audio output is busy when
.B Play
is started, this button displays
.BR Waiting .
When the device is available, the button switches to
.B Stop
and audio output begins.
Clicking on the
.B Waiting
button resets the tool to the idle state.
.TP
.B Record/Stop
Clicking this button starts the recording of data
from the audio input port that is wired to the 8-pin mini-\s-1DIN\s0
connector on the back of 
.SM SPARC\s0station 1 systems.
While recording is in progress, this button becomes a
.B Stop
button.
If audio input is busy when
.B Record
is selected, an alert pops up and the tool resets to the idle state.
A maximum of 5 minutes may be recorded at a time.
.TP
.B Pause
Clicking this button while playing or recording suspends the current operation.
The button becomes a
.B Resume
button that may be selected to continue the suspended operation.
.TP
.B Describe
Clicking this button brings up the \*(lqAudio Status Panel\*(rq.
If the panel was already visible, clicking this button removes it.
.TP
.B Quit
Clicking this button exits
.BR soundtool .
.TP
.B "Play Volume"
This slider adjusts the playback volume.
Volume levels between 0 and 100 may be selected, where 0 represents
infinite attenuation and 100 is maximum gain.
.TP
.B "Record Volume"
This slider adjusts the recording level in the range 0 to 100.
.TP
.B "Output To"
This selector switches the audio output port between
the built-in speaker and the external headphone jack.
.TP
.B Looping
When
.B Looping
is disabled, the current data region (that is, the data between
the two markers in the waveform display) is played once.
If
.B Looping
is enabled, the selected data plays endlessly until the
.B Stop
button is pressed.
.SS Function Control Panel
.TP
.B Load
Clicking
.B Load
reads in the audio file specified by the
.B Directory
and
.B File
fields.
If the named file does not contain a valid audio header, the raw
data is copied into the buffer and an alert is displayed.
Clicking the
.B Store
button at that point rewrites the file with the proper audio file header.
.IP
Arbitrarily large audio files may be loaded.
However, system swap space
resources may be depleted (one minute of 
.SM SPARC\s0station 1
audio data consumes roughly .5 Mbyte of swap space).
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B Store
Clicking
.B Store
writes the selected data region into the file specified by the
.B Directory
and
.B File
fields.
If the named file exists, an alert will request confirmation of the operation.
.TP
.B Append
Clicking
.B Append
appends the selected data region to the file specified by the
.B Directory
and
.B File
fields.
The named file must contain a valid audio file header.
.TP
.B Directory
The
.B Directory
field specifies a directory path in which to look for audio files.
.TP
.B File
The
.B File
field designates the file to be loaded from, stored to, or appended to.
Holding down the right mouse button on this field presents a menu of
audio files in the currently designated directory.
All files that contain a valid audio file header, or whose
names have the suffix 
.B \&.au
or 
.BR \&.snd ,
are listed.
.SS Oscilloscope
.LP
When the program is in the idle state and the cursor is in the
waveform display panel, the oscilloscope acts as
a magnifying glass, displaying the region of the audio waveform that
is currently under the cursor.
When the program is playing or recording, 
the oscilloscope displays the data that is currently being transferred.
Note: there is a small time lag in the display of recorded data,
due to the fact that the audio device driver buffers input data and
delivers it to the application in discrete segments.
.SS Display Control Panel
.TP
.B Zoom
The
.B Zoom
slider adjusts the compression factor used in the display of the waveform.
The upper compression limit is chosen so that the entire waveform fits
in the waveform display panel.
The lower limit is restricted by the ability
to manipulate large scrolling regions in SunView.
Adjustment of the
.B Zoom
slider ordinarily results in data compression or expansion around the
center of the currently displayed waveform.
If the waveform display
contains one or both data selection markers, an attempt is made to
keep at least a portion of the selected data region in the window.
.IP
The magnified waveform
presented in the oscilloscope display is unaffected by the
.B Zoom
value.
However, cursor movement over the waveform reflects the current
compression;  that is, lower
.B Zoom
values result in finer granularity of mouse movement.
.SS Waveform Display Panel
.IP
The waveform display shows all or part of the current waveform,
depending on the current
.B Zoom
value.
Scrolling of the waveform may be achieved either by using the scrollbar
or by dragging the waveform to the right or left while holding
the middle mouse button down.
Note: scrolling is disabled when the entire waveform is being displayed
(that is, when the
.B Zoom
value is at its maximum).
.IP
In some cases, it is desirable to identify a subset of the waveform.
For instance, the
.BR Play ,
.BR Store ,
and
.B Append
functions operate on a selected region, rather than the entire waveform.
The currently selected region of interest is delimited by dashed vertical lines.
A new region may be selected by clicking the left or right mouse button
and dragging it across the desired region of interest.
Alternatively, a single click on the left or right mouse buttons
adjusts the start or end points.
.SS Audio Status Panel
.IP
This panel is displayed (or removed) when the
.B Describe
button is pressed.
It contains fields that describe the data in the buffer.
.TP
.B "Sample Rate"
This field displays the sampling frequency, in samples per second.
.TP
.B Channels
This field denotes the number of interleaved channels of audio data.
.TP
.B Precision
This field identifies the encoding precision, in bits per sample.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B Encoding
This field displays the encoding format.
.TP
.B "Total Length"
This field shows the length of the entire data buffer, in the form
\fIhh\fP:\fImm\fP:\fIss\fP.\fIdd\fP.
.TP
.B Selection
This field identifies the start and end times of the currently selected
region of interest.
.TP
.B "Info String"
When an audio file is loaded, the first 80 characters of the information field
of the audio header are displayed in this field.
This string may be edited,
though the new information is only written out when the
.B Store
operation is performed.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Currently,
.B soundtool
is capable of displaying only 8-bit \(*m-law
encoded data.  This restriction should be removed.
.LP
Audio files should be mapped in order to reduce the swap space requirements.
The limit on recording length should also be removed.
.LP
SunView scrollbars operate on canvases whose virtual
size is given by a short integer (that is, 16 bits).
This ridiculous constraint is the reason for the lower limit on zooming.
Because of this, the accuracy of start and end point selection is
reduced when the data buffer is large.
.LP
Region selections made over the waveform display panel work best when
the click and drag paradigm is used.
Adjusting the start or end points
by a single click is susceptible to error; 
that is, if the mouse moves slightly
between the button down and up events, the result is a very small
selection.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gaintool (6),
.BR play (6),
.BR raw2audio (6),
.BR record (6)
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
This program is furnished on an
.I as is
basis as a demonstration
of audio applications programming.
