.\" @(#)vwcvph.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH VWCVPH 6 "16 February 1988"
.SH NAME
vwcvph \- view convex polyhedron
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/demo/vwcvph
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "vwcvph view" "" "\fLvwcvph\fP \(em view convex polyhedron" ""
.IX polyhedron "view convex polyhedron"
.IX view "convex polyhedron"
.LP
.B vwcvph
allows the user to view a convex polyhedron from
various positions with hidden surfaces removed.
The viewing position is selected using the mouse.
Using the SunCore Graphics Package, a 3-D projection
is drawn on the Sun Monochrome Bitmap Display.
The mandatory file argument contains a
polygonal object definition as
described in the manual page for
.B /usr/demo/rotcvph.
.LP
The program operates in two modes:
.B DisplayObject
mode and
.B SelectView
mode.
The program starts in
.B DisplayObject mode:
.RS
.TP
.BR DisplayObject :
The object is displayed in 3-D perspective with hidden surfaces removed.
Type
.B q
while in this mode to exit the program. Press
.SM RIGHT 
mouse button to
switch to
.B SelectView
mode.
.TP
.BR SelectView :
Schematic projections of the outline of
the object are shown and the mouse
is used to select a viewing position. 
Press 
.SM LEFT
mouse button to set 
.I x 
and 
.SM MIDDLE
mouse button 
to set 
.I y 
in the
.IR "Front View" .
Use 
.SM MIDDLE 
mouse button to set 
.I z 
in the
.IR "Top View" .
Press 
.SM RIGHT 
mouse button to switch to
.B DisplayObject
mode.
.RE
.LP
The view shown in
.B DisplayObject
mode is drawn using the conventions that the
viewer is always looking from the viewing
position toward the center of
the object and that the positive 
.I y 
axis
on the screen is the projection of
the positive 
.I y 
axis in object coordinates.
.LP
The input file may define non-convex objects.  The program will
display these objects but hidden surface computations
will not be done
correctly.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
.B /usr/demo/data/*.dat	
sample object definition files
.PD
.SH BUGS
.LP
Lines which are common to two visible polygons in a
view are drawn twice, once
for each polygon.
