.\" @(#)aliases.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.hw sendmail
.TH ALIASES 5 "18 December 1989"
.SH NAME
aliases, addresses, forward \- addresses and aliases for sendmail
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
/etc/aliases
/etc/aliases.dir
/etc/aliases.pag
~/.forward
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "forward file"  ""  "\fL.forward\fP \(em mail forwarding file"
.IX  "aliases file"  ""  "\fLaliases\fP \(em sendmail aliases file"
.IX  "sendmail aliases file"  ""  "sendmail aliases file \(em \fLaliases\fP"
.IX  "sendmail forward file"  ""  "sendmail aliases file \(em \fL.forward\fP"
.LP
These files contain mail addresses or aliases, recognized by
.BR sendmail (8),
for the local host:
.LP
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/passwd
Mail addresses (usernames) of local users.
.TP
.B /etc/aliases
Aliases for the local host, in
.SM ASCII
format. 
This file can be edited to add, update, or delete
local mail aliases.
.TP
.BR /etc/aliases. { dir , pag }
The aliasing information from
.BR /etc/aliases ,
in binary,
.BR dbm (3X)
format for use by
.BR sendmail (8).
The program
.BR newaliases (8),
which is invoked automatically by
.BR sendmail (8),
maintains these files.
.TP
.B \u\(ap\d/.forward
Addresses to which a user's mail is forwarded (see
.BR "Automatic Forwarding" ,
below).
.PD
.LP
In addition, the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
aliases map
.I mail.aliases
contains addresses and aliases available for use across the network.
.SS Addresses
.LP
As distributed,
.BR sendmail (8)
supports the following types of addresses:
.SS \fILocal Usernames\fP
.IP
.I username
.LP
Each local
.I username
is listed in the local host's
.B /etc/passwd
file.
.SS \fILocal Filenames\fP
.IP
.I pathname
.LP
Messages addressed to the absolute
.I pathname
of a file are appended to that file.
.SS \fICommands\fP
.IP
.BI |\^ command
.LP
If the first character of the address is a vertical bar,
.RB ( \||\| ),
.BR sendmail (8)
pipes the message to the standard input of the
.I command
the bar precedes.
.SS \s-1TCP/IP\s0\fI-standard Addresses\fP
.IP
.IB username @ domain
.LP
If
.I domain
does not contain any
.RB ` . '
(dots),
then it is interpreted as the name of a
host in the current domain.
Otherwise, the message is passed to a
.I mailhost
that determines how to get to the specified domain.
Domains are divided into subdomains separated by
dots, with the top-level domain on the right.
Top-level domains include:
.RS
.TP
.SM .COM
Commercial organizations.
.PD 0
.TP
.SM .EDU
Educational organizations.
.TP
.SM .GOV
Government organizations.
.TP
.SM .MIL
Military organizations.
.PD
.RE
.LP
For example, the full address of John Smith could be:
.IP
.B js@jsmachine.Podunk-\s-1U.EDU\s0
.LP
if he uses the machine named
.B jsmachine
at Podunk University.
.SS \fBuucp\fP(1C) \fIAddresses\fP
.IP
\&.\|.\|. [\c
.IB host !\c
]\c
.IB host ! username
.LP
These are sometimes mistakenly referred to as \*(lqUsenet\*(rq addresses.
.BR uucp (1C)
provides links to numerous sites throughout the world for
the remote copying of files.
.LP
Other site-specific forms of addressing can be added by customizing
the
.B sendmail
configuration file.  See the
.BR sendmail (8),
and
.TX ADMIN
for details.  Standard addresses are recommended.
.br
.ne 20
.SS Aliases
.SS \fILocal Aliases\fP
.B /etc/aliases
is formatted as a series of lines of the form
.IP
.IB aliasname : " address"\c
.RB [ ,
.IR " address" ]
.LP
.I aliasname
is the name of the alias or alias group, and
.I address
is the address of a recipient in the group.
Aliases can be nested.  That is, an
.I address
can be the name of another alias group.
Because of the way
.B sendmail
performs mapping from upper-case to lower-case, an
.I address
that is the name of another alias group must not contain any
upper-case letters.
.LP
Lines beginning with white space are treated as continuation lines
for the preceding alias.
Lines beginning with
.B #
are comments.
.SS \fISpecial Aliases\fP
.LP
An alias of the form:
.IP
.BI owner\- aliasname : " address"
.LP
directs error-messages resulting from mail to
.I aliasname
to
.IR address ,
instead of back to the person who sent the
message.
.LP
An alias of the form:
.IP
.IB  aliasname :
.BI :include: pathname
.LP
with colons as shown, adds the recipients listed in the file
.I pathname
to the
.I aliasname
alias.
This allows a private list to be maintained separately from the
aliases file.
.SS \fINIS Domain Aliases\fP
Normally, the aliases file on the master
.SM NIS
server is used for the
.I mail.aliases
.SM NIS
map, which can be made available to every
.SM NIS
client.  Thus, the
.B /etc/aliases*
files on the various hosts in a network will one day be obsolete.
Domain-wide aliases should ultimately be resolved into usernames on
specific hosts.
For example, if the following were in the domain-wide alias file:
.IP
.B jsmith:js@jsmachine
.LP
then any
.SM NIS
client could just mail to
.B jsmith
and not have to
remember the machine and username for John Smith.
If an
.SM NIS
alias does
not resolve to an address with a specific host, then the name of the
.SM NIS
domain is used.
There should be an alias of the domain name for a host
in this case.
For example, the alias:
.IP
.B jsmith:root
.LP
sends mail on an
.SM NIS
client to
.B root@podunk-u
if the name of the
.SM NIS
domain is
.BR podunk-u .
.SS \fIAutomatic Forwarding\fP
.LP
When an alias (or address) is resolved to the name of a user on the
local host,
.B sendmail
checks for a
.B \&.forward
file, owned by the intended recipient, in that user's home directory,
and with universal read access.
This file can contain one or more addresses or aliases as described
above, each of which is sent a copy of the user's mail.
.LP
Care must be taken to avoid creating addressing loops in the
.B \&.forward
file.
When forwarding mail between machines, be sure that the destination
machine does not return the mail to the sender through
the operation of any
.SM NIS
aliases.  Otherwise, copies of
the message may \*(lqbounce\*(rq.
Usually, the solution is to change the
.SM NIS
alias to direct mail to the proper destination.
.br
.ne 8
.LP
A backslash before a username
inhibits further aliasing.
For instance, to invoke the
.BR vacation (1)
program, user
.B js
creates a
.B \&.forward
file that contains the line:
.IP
\fB\ejs, "|/usr/ucb/vacation js"\fP
.LP
so that one copy of the message is sent to the
user, and another is piped into the
.BR vacation (1)
program.
.if t .ne 5
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/passwd
.TP
.B /etc/aliases
.TP
.B \u\(ap\d/.forward
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR vacation (1),
.BR dbm (3X),
.BR newaliases (8),
.BR sendmail (8),
.LP
.TX ADMIN
.SH BUGS
.LP
Because of restrictions in
.BR dbm (3X)
a single alias cannot contain more than about 1000 characters.
Nested aliases can be used to circumvent this limit.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
