.\" @(#)ar.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH AR 5 "18 February 1988"
.SH NAME
ar \- archive (library) file format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ar.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ar file"  ""  "\fLar\fP \(em archive file format"
.IX  "archive file format"  ""  "archive file format \(em \fLar\fP"
.IX  "library file format"  ""  "library file format \(em \fLar\fP"
.LP
The archive command
.B ar
combines several files into one.
Archives are used mainly as libraries to be searched by the link-editor
.BR ld (1).
.LP
A file produced by
.B ar
has a magic string at the start,
followed by the constituent files, each preceded by a file header.
The magic number and header layout as described in the include file are:
.RS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.ta \w'#define 'u +\w'SARMAG 'u
.ec %
#define	ARMAG	"!<arch>\n"
#define	SARMAG	8

#define	ARFMAG	"`\n"

struct ar_hdr {
	char	ar_name[16];
	char	ar_date[12];
	char	ar_uid[6];
	char	ar_gid[6];
	char	ar_mode[8];
	char	ar_size[10];
	char	ar_fmag[2];
};
.ec \
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
The name is a blank-padded string.
The
.B ar_fmag
field contains
.SB ARFMAG
to help verify the presence of a header.
The other fields are left-adjusted, blank-padded numbers.
They are decimal except for
.BR ar_mode ,
which is octal.
The date is the modification date of the file
at the time of its insertion into the archive.
.LP
Each file begins on a even (0 mod 2) boundary;
a
.SM NEWLINE
is inserted between files if necessary.
Nevertheless the size given reflects the
actual size of the file exclusive of padding.
.LP
There is no provision for empty areas in an archive file.
.LP
The encoding of the header is portable across machines.
If an archive contains printable files, the archive itself is printable.
.SH Sun386i DESCRIPTION
.LP
The file produced by
.I ar
on Sun386i systems is identical to that described above with the
following changes:
.LP
Each archive containing
.SM COFF
files [see
.BR coff (5)]
includes an archive symbol table.
This symbol table is used by the link editor 
.B ld
to determine which archive members must be loaded during the link
edit process.
The archive symbol table (if it exists) is always the first file
in the archive (but is never listed) and is automatically
created and/or updated by
.BR ar .
.LP
The
.I ar_name\^
field of the ar_hdr structure described above is blank-padded and slash 
.RB ( /\| )
terminated.  
Common format archives can be moved from system to system as long as the
portable archive command
.BR ar
is used.  Conversion tools such as
.BR convert
exist to aid in the transportation
of non-common format archives to this format.
.LP
Each archive file member begins on an even byte boundary; a
.SM NEWLINE
is inserted between files if necessary.
Nevertheless the size given reflects the
actual size of the file exclusive of padding.
.LP
If the archive symbol table exists, the first file in the archive
has a zero length name (i.e.,
.B ar_name[0] == '/'
).  The contents of this file are as follows:
.TP
\(bu
The number of symbols.  Length: 4 bytes.
.TP
\(bu
The array of offsets into the archive file.  Length: 4 bytes \(** \*(lqthe
number of symbols\*(rq.
.TP
\(bu
The name string table.  Length:
.I ar_size\^
\- (4 bytes \(** (\*(lqthe number of symbols\*(rq + 1)).
.LP
The number of symbols and the array of offsets are managed with
.IR sgetl " and " sputl .
The string table contains exactly as many null terminated strings
as there are elements in the offsets array.
Each offset from the array is associated with the corresponding
name from the string table (in order).
The names in the string table are all the defined global symbols
found in the common object files in the archive.
Each offset is the location of the archive header for the associated symbol.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ar (1V),
.BR ld (1),
.BR nm (1)
.SH Sun386i WARNINGS
.LP
.IR strip (1)
will remove all archive symbol entries from the header.  The archive symbol
entries must be restored via the \f3ts\f1 option of the
.IR ar (1V)
command before the archive can be used with the link editor
.IR ld (1).
.SH BUGS
.LP
Filenames lose trailing blanks.
Most software dealing with archives takes even
an included blank as a name terminator.
