.\" @(#)auto.home.5	1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new from ECD for 4.1
.TH AUTO.HOME 5 "19 February 1988"
.SH NAME
auto.home \- automount map for home directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/auto.home
.SH AVAILABILTITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "auto.home" "" "\fLauto.home\fP \(em autmount map for home directories" ""
.LP
.B auto.home
resides in the
.B /etc
directory, and contains
.BR automount (8)
map entries for user's home directories.
On Sun386i systems, this file is used to build the 
.B auto.home
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
map used by
.B automount
at system startup and reads the 
.B auto.master
.SM NIS
database, which contains an entry for 
.B auto.home 
and 
.B /home .
The 
.B auto.home
map contains entries for each username in the 
.SM NIS
.B passwd
map, and the
.IB hostname :/ directory
to
.SM NFS
mount. 
.LP
References to
.BI /home/ username
are translated by the automount daemon using the 
.B auto.home 
map,
and the directory specified in the map entry is
.B nfs
mounted and that directory returned to the user's program.
.LP
User accounts created using
.BR snap (1)
or
.BR logintool (8)
have
.BR passwd (5)
entries where the
initial (home) directory name is, in the form
.BI /home/ username\fR.
.BR snap
and
.B logintool
also automatically create the 
.B auto.home
entry for a user account.
The format of the entry is described in 
.BR automount (8).
An example entry is:
.IP
.ft B
mtravis		system2:/export/home/users/mtravis
.ft R
.LP
Thus, when the user
.B mtravis
logs into a Sun386i systems, the automounter
automatically mounts his home directory from
.BR system2 .
This allows a user to log in to any Sun386i workstation on the network
and be automatically placed in their home directory.
.LP
The convention for the format of home directory names used by
.BR snap
and
.B logintool
is:
.IP
.BI /export/home/ groupname / username
.LP
Note: this is a different map and mechanism for home directories than the
one that the automount daemon provides with the
.B \-homes
switch.
This is because the Sun386i convention for the format of home directory names
differs and provides directories that can be used as mount points
on a per user and per group basis.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/auto.home
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR snap (1),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR automount (8),
.BR logintool (8)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
