.\" @(#)auto.vol.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH AUTO.VOL 5 "19 February 1988"
.SH NAME
auto.vol \- automount map for volumes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/auto.vol
.SH AVAILABILTITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "auto.vol" "" "\fLauto.vol\fP \(em automount map for volumes" ""
.LP
.B auto.vol
resides in the
.B /etc
directory, and contains
.BR automount (8)
map entries for 
.BR volumes .
On Sun386i systems, this file is used to build the 
.B auto.vol
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
map used by
.BR automount (8)
at system startup.
.B automouunt
reads the 
.B auto.master
.SM NIS
map, which contains an entry for
.B auto.vol
and
.BR /vol .
.LP
References to
.BI /vol/ volume_name
are translated by the automount daemon using the 
.B auto.vol
map,
and the directory specified in the map entry is mounted.
.LP
The concept of a volume is that it is a self contained directory hierarchy
that can be
.SM NFS
mounted.
It is referenced using a known
.IR volume_name .
The use of an automount map is suggested so that the volume and its
contents can be
referenced through
.BR /vol .
This is advantageous because location-transparency
(that is, which host the volume is on) and replication of read-only
volumes can be provided using the automount mechanism.
The format of the entry is described in 
.BR automount (8).
An example entry is:
.IP
.ft B
archive		system4:/export/archive
.ft R
.LP
In the above example, the
.B archive
volume is currently on line on
.BR system4 .
Users and programs can reference it via
.BR /vol/archive .
If for some reason the volume had to be moved to another system,
.B system2
for example,
the network or system administrator simply edits the map entry for
the archive volume and changes the hostname to
.B system2
and then rebuilds the 
.SM NIS
maps.
.IP
.ftB
archive		system2:/export/archive
.ft R
.LP
Users and programs can continue to refer to the archive volume using 
.BR /vol/archive ,
unaware that the volume was moved to another system.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/auto.vol
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR automount (8)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
