'\" t
.\" @(#)boards.pc.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH BOARDS.PC 5 "25 September 1989"
.SH NAME
boards.pc \- information about AT- and XT-compatible boards for DOS windows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/dos/defaults/boards.pc
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "boards.pc data file"  ""  "\fLboards.pc\fP \(em file for DOS windows"
.IX "data file"  "boards.pc data file"  ""  "\fLboards.pc\fP \(em file for DOS windows"
.IX "DOS windows" "boards.pc data file" "" "\fLboards.pc\fP \(em file for DOS windows"
.LP
The
.B boards.pc
file stores information about
.SM AT\s0-
and 
.SM XT\s0-compatible
boards installed on a system.
.LP
Only the super-user may alter the file.
.LP
The file format is as follows, with entries separated by
.SM SPACE
or
.SM TAB
characters:
.RS
.nf
.sp
.ft I
Board-name	\s-1I/O\s0 port range	\s-1IRQ	DMA\s0	Memory	  Options
.ft P
.sp
.fi
.RE
.TP
.I Board-name
The name of the board as it will appear in the
.SM DOS
Windows Device menu.
Use any name that is not longer than 19 characters.
.TP
.I "\s-1I/O\s0 port range"
Most boards have
.SM I/O
addresses through which they exchange 
information with the workstation.
For boards that will be used by 
.SM DOS\s0,
the
.SM I/O
address is entered in the
.B boards.pc
file, directly to the right of the board name.
.IP
Certain
.SM I/O
addresses are already used by
.SM DOS
Windows emulated devices (such as drive C and the
.SM DOS
printers), and by built-in system hardware.
The following list shows the
.SM AT\s0-bus
.SM I/O
address spaces:
.IP
.TS
center ;
lfB lfB .
Address	\s-1DOS\s0 Use
.sp .5
1F8-1FF *	Hard disk (C:) emulation
218-21F	Expanded memory
230-23F	Bus mouse emulation
278-27F	Parallel port 2 (usually accessed through LPT3)
378-37F *	Parallel port 1 (usually accessed through LPT2)
3B0-3BF	Monochrome display adapter
3D0-3DF	Color display adapter
3F0-3F7 *	Diskette controller
.TE
.TP
\&
An address marked with an asterisk cannot be replaced
by a board.
When the board you are installing uses one
of these addresses, or it uses the same
address as another board that is already
installed, change the jumpers or switch settings 
on your board to use a different address.
If you add a board that 
occupies one of these address spaces,
.SM DOS
ignores the entry.
An address not marked with an asterisk
may be used for a board you are installing,
as long as you do not plan to use the emulated
device at that address. 
.sp .5
.B "Adding an \s-1I/O\s0 Address Entry to boards.pc:"
.sp .5
If the board uses addresses that can be contained within one
eight-address block, note the block base address and
include it in the
.I \s-1I/O\s0 port range
column of the
.B boards.pc
file.
When using a multiple-block address, specify the base
address of each block.
For example, when entering a two-block 
address, specify the base addresses of both
the first and second blocks, and
separated with a
.SM SPACE
character. 
Suppose you have a board with a two-block I/O address space that 
begins at 380.
You would specify 380 388 in the
.B boards.pc
file's 
.I \s-1I/O\s0 port range
column.
.br
.ne 5v
.TP
.I \s-1IRQ\s0    
Some boards send periodic signals asking
.SM DOS
to delay whatever it is doing
and accept information from the device. 
These signals are known as
.BR "interrupt requests" ,
or more simply, as
.BR interrupts .
The following chart shows the interrupt levels available under
.SM DOS 
Windows.
Valid interrupt levels are 1 to 15,
although some of these are reserved for emulated
.SM DOS
devices. 
.LP
.RS 1.0i
.nf
.ft B
Interrupt 
Level	Availability
.sp .5
  0	Unavailable; used for timer emulation
  1	Unavailable; used for keyboard emulation
  2	Unavailable; used for interrupt controller 2 cascade
  3	Available for board, unless COM2 emulation in use
   	(specified in setup.pc)
  4	Available for board, unless COM1 emulation in use
   	(specified in setup.pc)
  5	Available for board, unless LPT3 emulation in use
   	(specified in setup.pc)
  6	Unavailable; used for diskette drive emulation
  7	Unavailable; used by built-in parallel port
  8	Unavailable; used for real-time clock emulation
  9	Available for board
 10	Available for board
 11	Available for board
 12	Available for board
 13	Unavailable; used for 8087 numeric coprocessor emulation
 14	Unavailable; used for hard disk emulation
 15	Available for board
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.TP
\&
To ensure that signals do not become confused,
set each board or emulated device that uses
interrupts for a different interrupt level.
Normally, interrupt settings are changed by
pressing small switches or moving metal
jumpers on the board itself. 
Consult the manual of the board you are installing
for details on how this is done.
In addition to the changes required on the
board itself, make sure that the interrupt level in your
.B boards.pc
file matches the setting on the card. 
For example, if a board's physical
interrupt was previously 3,
and you change it to 4 by altering switch settings
or board jumpers, make a corresponding change in the
.B boards.pc
file.
If the card uses a
.SM DOS 
driver, you may also need to make changes in
.SB C:\CONFIG.SYS
or other files to reflect the switch settings on the card.
.sp
.ft B
Adding an Interrupt Entry to boards.pc
.ft P
.sp
Some boards do not generate interrupts, and therefore will not 
have an interrupt level listed in their manuals. 
If this is the case, leave the
.I \s-1IRQ\s0
column empty. 
For boards where an interrupt level is required,
enter the letters 
.B irq
followed by the appropriate number in the
.B boards.pc
file, as shown in
.SM EXAMPLES
below.
.TP
.I \s-1DMA\s0  
Certain boards use direct memory access
.SM (DMA)
channels to ensure speedy transfer of large
quantities of data. 
.SM DMA
channels 0, 1, 3, and 5 are available.
Each
.SM DOS
or SunOS
.SM DMA
board on the system must be assigned a unique
.SM DMA
channel.
When two or more boards expect to use
.SM DMA
channel 1, physically alter
.SM DMA
settings on one of the boards so that
it uses a different channel (such as
.SM DMA
channel 3).
Normally these settings are changed
by pressing small switches or
moving metal jumpers on the board itself.
Consult the manual for the board
you are installing for details on changing a
.SM DMA
channel setting.
.br
.ne 5v
.sp
.ft B
Adding a
.SM DMA
.ft B
Entry to boards.pc
.ft R
.sp
When the board you are installing uses a
.SM DMA
channel, include a
.B dma 
entry for that board. 
For example, when the board is set up to use
.SM DMA
channel 3, the entry can look like this:
.LP
.RS 1.0i
.nf
.ft B
\s-1MYBOARD\s0   200 208 irq 2 dma 3
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.br 
.ne 7v
.TP
.I Memory        
Some boards are equipped with memory chips for
.SM DOS\s0.
Because this memory is \*(lqmapped\*(rq (transferred) into
.SM DOS
memory so that
.SM DOS
can read it, the boards are called
.IR "memory mapped boards" .
When you install such a board, include a
.B mem
entry with the following format:
.LP
.RS 1.0i
.B mem
.I address size
.RE
.TP
\&
The
.I address
is the starting address of the memory segment, in 
hexadecimal notation.
Enter the size of the memory block in 
kilobytes, in decimal notation.
The following example is for
a board that starts mapped memory
at the address $DE00 and 
uses a block of 8 kilobytes.
.LP
.RS 1.0i
.B "\s-1MYBOARD\s0 258    irq 5   dma 3   mem de00 8"
.RE
.TP
\&
When determining the size of the memory block, be careful not to confuse
.SM DOS
address size (the number you should use) with actual on-board memory (the
number you should not use).
For example, a 
.SM LIM
memory board might have 2 megabytes of on-board memory, yet may require
only 64 kilobytes of
.SM DOS
address space for its memory mapping.
Therefore, the number to use for the
.B mem 
entry is 64.
.TP
.I Options
.TP
.B "       reboot"
Certain boards require
.SM DOS
rebooting before they work. 
These same boards require that you reboot 
.SM DOS
after you have finished using them.
You can set up
.SM DOS
to reboot the current
.SM DOS
window automatically whenever the board is attached.
.SM DOS
displays a confirmatory alert before rebooting.
.sp
To force
.SM DOS
to reboot when you attach the board, add the word
.B reboot
at the end of the
.B boards.pc
line for that board, as shown in the following example:
.LP
.RS 1.0i
.nf
.ft B
\s-1MYBOARD\s0 3e8  mem a000 192  reboot
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.TP
\&
If you choose to omit the
.B reboot
instruction, you can enable the board by attaching it and then manually
rebooting:
.LP
.RS 1.0i
.nf
1.  Choose \fBAttached from the Device\fP menu to enable the board.
2.  Choose \fBReboot DOS Window\fP.
.fi
.RE
.TP
\&
To detach such a board from a
.SM DOS
window, choose
.B Detach
and then reboot the
.SM DOS
window.
.TP
.B "       shared"
You can specify that a device is to be shared between windows, 
rather than being reserved for use by one window at a time.
Generally, you should do this only with devices, such as joysticks, which
can fluidly move from one
.SM DOS
window to another. 
To designate a device as shared, place the word
.B shared
at the very end of the
.B boards.pc
line:
.LP
.RS 1.0i
.nf
.ft B
Joystick     200               shared
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.SS Determining Board Information
.LP
In many cases, you may need to determine whether a board you are 
installing will conflict with other devices on the system.
Also, you 
sometimes may need to install a board for which there is no entry 
in the
.B boards.pc
file.
In most cases, the instruction manual included with the board 
you are installing should contain the technical information you need, including:
.LP
.RS .5i
The
.SM I/O
port addresses at which the board is accessed.
One or more blocks can be reserved,
and there are eight consecutive 
addresses per block.
.LP
The board's interrupt level,
if the board generates interrupts. 
.LP
The
.SM DMA
channel number, if the board uses a direct memory access channel.
.LP
Memory mapping information, if the board maps data into
.SM DOS 
memory.
.RE
.LP
If the board's manual does not provide such information, contact 
the manufacturer.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following is an example of a
.B boards.pc
file:
.LP
.if n .ig ZZ
.\" next line (#Tallgrass...) removed from tbl for nroff reasons
.\"#Tallgrass-TG-2025e	288	irq 3	dma 3	mem d800 4	reboot
.TS
center;
l1fB l1fB l1fB l1fB l1fB l1fB .
#COM2	2f8	irq 3
#Joystick	200				shared     
#EGA	3b0 3b8 3c0 3c8 3d0 3d8			mem a000 192	reboot
#VGA	3b0 3b8 3c0 3c8 3d0 3d8 102 2e8			mem a000 192		reboot
#3COM-3C501	300 308	irq 3	dma 1
#TOPS-FlashTalk	398	irq 3
#IBM-3363-Worm	258	irq 5	dma 3	mem de00 8	reboot
#Plus-Hardcard20	320	irq 5	dma 3	mem ca00 8	reboot
#HP-Basic	390	irq 3
#DCA-IRMA1	220 228
#DCA-IRMA2	220 228 280 288
#Bernoulli-A220H	350				reboot
#WD8003E	280 288 290 298	irq 5		mem d000 8 
#NI5210	360	irq 5		mem c000 16
#NIC		irq 5		mem d000 32
#LPT2	278	irq 5
.TE
.ZZ
.if t .ig ZZ
.nf
#COM2            2f8                             irq 3
#Joystick        200                                                      shared
#EGA             3b0 3b8 3c0 3c8 3d0 3d8                     mem a000 192 reboot
#VGA             3b0 3b8 3c0 3c8 3d0 3d8 102 2e8             mem a000 192
#3COM-3C501      300 308                         irq 3 dma 1
#TOPS-FlashTalk  398                             irq 3
#IBM-3363-Worm   258                             irq 5 dma 3 mem de00 8   reboot
#Plus-Hardcard20 320                             irq 5 dma 3 mem ca00 8   reboot
#HP-Basic        390                             irq 3
#DCA-IRMA1       220 228
#DCA-IRMA2       220 228 280 288
#Bernoulli-A220H 350                                                      reboot
#WD8003E         280 288 290 298                 irq 5       mem d000 8
#NI5210          360                             irq 5       mem c000 16
#NIC                                             irq 5       mem d000 32
#LPT2            278                             irq 5
.fi
.ZZ
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/help/*/*
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dos (1),
.BR setup.pc (5)
.LP
.I Sun386i Advanced Skills
