.\" @(#)cpio.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH CPIO 5  "19 October 1987"
.SH NAME
cpio \- format of cpio archive
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "cpio file"  ""  "\fLcpio\fP \(em cpio archive format"
.LP
The old format
.I header
structure, when the
.B \-c
option of
.B cpio
is not used, is:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
struct {
	short	h_magic,
		h_dev;
	ushort	h_ino,
		h_mode,
		h_uid,
		h_gid;
	short	h_nlink,
		h_rdev,
		h_mtime[2],
		h_namesize,
		h_filesize[2];
	char	h_name[h_namesize rounded to a word];
} Hdr;
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
The byte order here is that of the machine on which the tape was written.
If the tape is being read on a machine with a different byte order, you have
to use
.BR swab (3)
after reading the header.  You can determine what byte order the tape was
written with by examining the
.I h_magic
field; if it is equal to
0143561 (octal), which is the standard magic number 070707 (octal) with the
bytes swapped, the tape was written in a byte order opposite to that of the
machine on which it is being read.  If you are producing a tape to be read
on a machine with the opposite byte order to that of the machine on which it
is being produced, you can use
.B swap
before writing the header.
.LP
When the
.B \-c
option is used, the
.I header
information is
described by the statement below:
.LP
.ft B
.nf
	sscanf(Chdr, "%6o%6o%6o%6o%6o%6o%6o%6o%11lo%6o%11lo%s",
		&Hdr.h_magic, &Hdr.h_dev, &Hdr.h_ino, &Hdr.h_mode,
		&Hdr.h_uid, &Hdr.h_gid, &Hdr.h_nlink, &Hdr.h_rdev,
		&Hdr.h_mtime, &Hdr.h_namesize, &Hdr.h_filesize, &Hdr.h_name);
.fi
.ft R
.LP
.I Longtime
and
.I Longfile
are equivalent to
.I Hdr.h_mtime
and
.IR Hdr.h_filesize ,
respectively.  The contents of each file is
recorded in an element of the array of varying length structures,
.IR archive ,
together with other items describing the
file.
Every instance of
.I h_magic
contains the constant 070707 (octal).
The items
.I h_dev
through
.I h_mtime
have meanings explained in
.BR stat (2V).
The length of the
null-terminated
path name
.IR h_name ,
including the
null
byte, is given by
.IR h_namesize .
.LP
The last record of the
.I archive
always contains the name
.BR \s-1TRAILER\s0!!! .
Special files, directories, and the trailer, are recorded
with
.I h_filesize
equal to zero.  Symbolic links are recorded similarly
to regular files, with the ``contents'' of the file being the name of the
file the symbolic link points to.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cpio (1),
.BR find (1),
.BR stat (2V),
.BR swab (3)
