.\" @(#)dump.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH DUMP 5 "19 October 1988"
.SH NAME
dump, dumpdates \- incremental dump format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/inode.h>
.B #include <protocols/dumprestore.h>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "dump file"  ""  "\fLdump\fP \(em incremental dump format"
.IX  "incremental dump format"  ""  "incremental dump format \(em \fLdump\fP"
.LP
Tapes used by
.B dump
and
.BR restore (8)
contain:
.LP
.nf
	a header record
	two groups of bit map records
	a group of records describing directories
	a group of records describing files
.fi
.LP
The format of the header record and of the first
record of each description as given in the
include file
.B <protocols/dumprestore.h>
is:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
.ta +\w'#define 'u +\w'HIGHDENSITYTREC 'u
#define \s-1TP_BSIZE\s0	1024
#define \s-1NTREC\s0	10
#define \s-1HIGHDENSITYTREC\s0	32
#define \s-1CARTRIDGETREC\s0	63
#define \s-1TP_NINDIR\s0	(\s-1TP_BSIZE\s0/2)

#define \s-1TS_TAPE\s0	1
#define \s-1TS_INODE\s0	2
#define \s-1TS_BITS\s0	3
#define \s-1TS_ADDR\s0	4
#define \s-1TS_END\s0	5
#define \s-1TS_CLRI\s0	6
#define \s-1OFS_MAGIC\s0	(int)60011
#define \s-1NFS_MAGIC\s0	(int)60012
#define \s-1CHECKSUM\s0	(int)84446
union u_spcl {
	char dummy[TP_BSIZE];
	struct	s_spcl {
		int		c_type;
		time_t		c_date;
		time_t		c_ddate;
		int		c_volume;
		daddr_t		c_tapea;
		ino_t		c_inumber;
		int		c_magic;
		int		c_checksum;
		struct		dinode		c_dinode;
		int		c_count;
		char		c_addr[\s-1TP_NINDIR\s0];
	} s_spcl;
} u_spcl;

#define spcl u_spcl.s_spcl
  
#define	\s-1DUMPOUTFMT\s0	"%-16s %c %s"		/* for printf */
						/* name, incno, ctime(date) */
#define	\s-1DUMPINFMT\s0	"%16s %c %[^\en]\en"	/* inverse for scanf */
.fi
.ft
.DT
.RE
.TP 15
.SB TP_BSIZE
Size of file blocks on the dump tapes.
Note:
.SB TP_BSIZE
must be a multiple of
.SM
.BR DEV_BSIZE\s0 .
.TP
.SB NTREC
Default number of
.SB TP_BSIZE
byte records in a physical tape block, changeable by the
.B b
option to
.BR dump .
.TP
.SB HIGHDENSITYNTREC
Default number of
.SB TP_BSIZE
byte records in a physical tape block on 6250 BPI or higher density tapes.
.TP
.SB CARTRIDGETREC
Default number of
.SB TP_BSIZE
records in a physical tape block on cartridge tapes.
.TP
.SB TP_NINDIR
Number of indirect pointers in a
.SB TS_INODE
or
.SB TS_ADDR
record.  It must be a power of two.
.LP
The
.SB TS_
entries are used in the
.B c_type
field to indicate what sort of header
this is.
The types and their meanings are as follows:
.LP
.TP 20
.SB TS_TAPE
Tape volume label
.TP
.SB TS_INODE
A file or directory follows.
The
.B c_dinode
field is a copy of the disk inode and contains
bits telling what sort of file this is.
.TP
.SB TS_BITS
A bit map follows.
This bit map has a one bit
for each inode that was dumped.
.TP
.SB TS_ADDR
A subrecord of a file description.
See
.B c_addr
below.
.TP
.SB TS_END
End of tape record.
.TP
.SB TS_CLRI
A bit map follows.
This bit map contains a zero bit for
all inodes that were empty on the file system when dumped.
.TP
.SB NFS_MAGIC
All header records have this number in
.BR c_magic .
.TP
.SB CHECKSUM
Header records checksum to this value.
.LP
The fields of the header structure are as follows:
.LP
.TP 20
.B c_type
The type of the header.
.TP
.B c_date
The date the dump was taken.
.TP
.B c_ddate
The date the file system was dumped from.
.TP
.B c_volume
The current volume number of the dump.
.TP
.B c_tapea
The current number of this (1024-byte) record.
.TP
.B c_inumber
The number of the inode being dumped if this
is of type
.BR \s-1TS_INODE\s0 .
.TP
.B c_magic
This contains the value
.SB MAGIC
above, truncated as needed.
.TP
.B c_checksum
This contains whatever value is needed to
make the record sum to
.BR \s-1CHECKSUM\s0 .
.TP
.B c_dinode
This is a copy of the inode as it appears on the
file system; see
.BR fs (5).
.TP
.B c_count
The count of characters in
.BR c_addr .
.TP
.B c_addr
An array of characters describing the blocks of the
dumped file.
A character is zero if the block associated with that character was not
present on the file system, otherwise the character is non-zero.
If the block was not present on the file system, no block was dumped;
the block will be restored as a hole in the file.
If there is not sufficient space in this record to describe
all of the blocks in a file,
.SB TS_ADDR
records will be scattered through the file, each one
picking up where the last left off.
.LP
Each volume except the last ends with a tapemark (read as an end
of file).
The last volume ends with a
.SB TS_END
record and then the tapemark.
.LP
The dump history is kept in the file
.BR /etc/dumpdates .
It is an
.SM ASCII
file with three fields separated by white space:
.IP
The name of the device on which the dumped file system resides.
.IP
The level number of the dump tape;
see
.BR dump (8).
.IP
The date of the incremental dump in the format generated by
.BR ctime (3V).
.LP
.SB DUMPOUTFMT
is the format to use when using
.BR printf (3S)
to write an entry to
.BR /etc/dumpdates ;
.SB DUMPINFMT
is the format to use when using
.BR scanf (3S)
to read an entry from
.BR /etc/dumpdates .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/dumpdates
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fs (5),
.BR types (5),
.BR dump (8),
.BR restore (8)
