.TH ENVIRON 5V "2 February 1990"
.SH NAME
environ \- user environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extern char **environ;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "environ file"  ""  "\fLenviron\fP \(em user environment"
.IX  "login environment \(em \fLenviron\fP"
.LP
An array of strings called the `environment' is made available by
.BR execve (2V)
when a process begins.  By convention these strings have the form
.RI ` name = value '.
The following names are used by various commands:
.TP 20
.SB PATH
The sequence of directory prefixes that
.BR sh (1),
.BR time (1V),
.BR nice (1),
etc., apply in searching for a file known by an incomplete path name.
The prefixes are separated by
.RB ` : '.
The
.BR login (1)
process sets
.BR \s-1PATH\s0=:/usr/ucb:/bin:/usr/bin .
.TP
.SB HOME
The name of the user's login directory, set by
.BR login (1)
from the password file
.B /etc/passwd
(see
.BR passwd (5)).
.TP
.SB TERM
The type of terminal on which the user is logged in.
This information is used by commands, such as
.BR nroff (1)
or
.BR plot (1G),
which may exploit special terminal capabilities.  See
.B /etc/termcap
.RB ( termcap (5))
for a list of terminal types.
.TP
.SB SHELL
The path name of the user's login shell.
.TP
.SB TERMCAP
The string describing the terminal in
.SM TERM,
or the name of the
.B termcap
file, see
.BR termcap (3X),
.BR termcap (5).
.TP
.SB EXINIT
A startup list of commands read by
.BR ex (1),
.BR edit ,
and
.BR vi (1).
.TP
.SB USER
.PD 0
.TP
.SB LOGNAME
The user's login name.
.PD
.TP
.SB TZ
The name of the time zone that the user is located in.  If
.SB TZ
is not present in the environment, the system's default time zone,
normally the time zone that the computer is located in, is used.
.LP
Further names may be placed in the environment by the
.I export
command and
.RI ` name = value '
arguments in
.BR sh (1),
or by the
.B setenv
command if you use
.BR csh (1).
Arguments may also be placed in the environment at the point of an
.BR execve (2V).
It is unwise to conflict with certain
.BR sh (1)
variables that are frequently exported by
.B .profile
files:
.BR \s-1MAIL\s0 ,
.BR \s-1PS\s01 ,
.BR \s-1PS\s02 ,
.BR \s-1IFS\s0 .
.LP
Various names are expected to be defined and used by
locale dependent commands and functions
(see
.BR locale (5)).
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
.LP
The description of the variable
.SB TERMCAP
does not apply to programs built in the System V environment.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/passwd
.TP
.B etc/termcap
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR csh (1),
.BR ex (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR nice (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR plot (1G),
.BR sh (1),
.BR time (1V),
.BR vi (1),
.BR execve (2V),
.BR getenv (3V),
.BR system (3),
.BR termcap (3X),
.BR locale (5),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR termcap (5)
