.\" @(#)exports.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH EXPORTS 5 "21 August 1990"
.SH NAME
exports, xtab \- directories to export to NFS clients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/exports
.LP
.B /etc/xtab
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "NFS directories to export"  ""  "NFS directories to export\(em \fLexports\fP"
.IX  "NFS exported directories"  ""  "NFS exported directories\(em \fLxtab\fP"
.IX  "xtab file"  ""  "\fLxtab\fP \(em exported file system table"
.IX  "exports file"  ""  "\fLexports\fP \(em exported file system table"
.IX  "exported file system table"  ""  "exported file system table \(em \fLxtab\fP"
.IX  "exportable file system table"  ""  "exportable file system table \(em \fLexports\fP"
.IX  "file system"  "exported table"  ""  "exported table \(em \fLxtab\fP"
.IX  "file system"  "exports table"  ""  "exports table \(em \fLexports\fP"
.LP
The
.B /etc/exports
file contains entries for directories that can be exported to
.SM NFS
clients.  This file is read automatically by the
.BR exportfs (8)
command.  If you change this file, you must run
.BR exportfs (8)
for the changes to affect the daemon's operation.
.LP
Only when this file is present at boot time does the
.B rc.local
script execute
.BR exportfs (8)
and start the
.SM NFS
file-system daemon,
.BR nfsd (8).
.LP
The
.B /etc/xtab
file contains entries for directories that are
.I currently
exported.  This file should only be accessed by programs using
.B getexportent(\|)
(see
.BR exportent (3)).
Use the
.B \-u
option of
.B exportfs
to remove entries from this file.
.LP
An entry for a directory consists of a line of the following form:
.IP
.I directory\ \ \ \fB\-\fIoption\fR[\fB,\|\fIoption\fR ]\|.\|.\|.
.TP 15
.I directory
is the pathname of a directory (or file).
.TP
.I option
is one of the following:
.RS
.TP
.B ro
Export the directory read-only.
If not specified, the directory is exported read-write.
.TP
.BI rw= hostnames [: hostname ]\|.\|.\|.
Export the directory read-mostly.
Read-mostly means read-only to most
machines, but read-write to those specified.
If not specified, the directory is
exported read-write to all.
.TP
.BI anon= uid
If a request comes from an unknown user, use
.I uid
as the effective user
.SM ID\s0.
Note: root users (uid 0) are always
considered \*(lqunknown\*(rq by the
.SM NFS
server, unless they are included in
the \*(lqroot\*(rq option below.
The default value for this option is the
.SM UID
of the user \*(lqnobody\*(rq.
If the user \*(lqnobody\*(rq does not exist then the value 65534 is used.
Setting the value of \*(lqanon\*(rq to 65535 disables anonymous access.
Note: by default secure
.SM NFS
accepts insecure requests as anonymous,
and those wishing for extra security can
disable this feature by setting \*(lqanon\*(rq to 65534.
.TP
.BI root= hostnames [: hostname ]\|.\|.\|.
Give root access only to the root users from a specified
.IR hostname .
The default is for no hosts to be granted root access. 
.TP
.BI access= client [: client ]\|.\|.\|.
Give mount access to each
.I client
listed.  A
.I client
can either be a hostname, or a netgroup (see
.BR netgroup (5)).
Each
.I client
in the list is first checked for in the
.B /etc/hosts
database, and then the 
.B /etc/netgroups
database.
The default value allows any
machine to mount the given directory.
.TP
.B secure
Require clients to use a more secure protocol when
accessing the directory.
.RE
.LP
A
.RB ` # '
(pound-sign)
anywhere in the file indicates a comment that extends to the end of the
line.
.br
.ne 5
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
.ft B
.ta 1i 3i
.nf
/usr	\-access=clients	# export to my clients
/usr/local		# export to the world
/usr2	\-access=hermes:zip:tutorial	# export to only these machines
/usr/sun	\-root=hermes:zip	# give root access only to these
/usr/new	\-anon=0	# give all machines root access
/usr/bin	\-ro	# export read-only to everyone
/usr/stuff	\-access=zip,anon=\-3,ro	# several options on one line
.fi
.ft R
.br
.ne 6
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/exports
.TP
.B /etc/xtab
.TP
.B /etc/hosts
.TP
.B /etc/netgroup
.TP
.B rc.local
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exportent (3),
.BR hosts (5),
.BR netgroup (5),
.BR exportfs (8),
.BR nfsd (8)
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
You cannot export either a parent directory or a subdirectory
of an exported directory that is
.IR "within the same filesystem" .
It would be illegal, for instance, to export both
.B /usr
and
.B /usr/local
if both directories resided on the same
disk partition.
