'\" t
.\" @(#)ext_ports.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH EXT_PORTS 5 "25 September 1989"
.SH NAME
ext_ports \- external ports file for network printers, terminals, and modems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/ext_ports
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "ext_ports" "" "\fLext_ports\fP \(em EXT_PORTS for network printers, terminals and modems" ""
.LP
The
.B ext_ports
external ports file is an
.SM ASCII
file in the
.B /etc
directory on the
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
master server.
.B ext_ports
is used only by
.SM SNAP\s0,
and contains basic information about each printer,
terminal, and modem on the network. 
This file contains a one-line entry for each device,
and each field
.I must
be separated by a
.SM TAB
character:
.if n .sp
.in +.5i
.if n .ti -.5i
.I "system:port\ \ type\ \ status\ \ baud\ \ model\ \ name\ \ #comment"
.in -.5i
.TP
.I system
names the system to which the device is attached.
This field contains only
lower case and numeric characters,
must start with a lower case character, and
must not be longer than 32 characters.
.TP
.I port
names the port in
.B /dev
on the
.IR system :
.B ttya
for the Sun386i serial port,
.B pp0
for the parallel port, and
.B ttym0
and
.B ttym1
for ports on an
.SM AT
bus serial card.
.TP
.I type
.BR printer ,
.BR terminal ,
or 
.BR modem .
.TP
.I status
indicates the device status.
For terminals and printers, this can be
.B on 
or
.BR off .
An
.B off
status means the device is disabled from access by the
SunOS operating system, but can still be accessed by \s-1DOS\s0.
For modems, this can be
.B in
to enable dialin,
.B out
to enable dialout,
.B in_out
to enable dialin and dialout, or
.BR off .
An
.B off
status means the device is disabled from access by the
SunOS operating system, but it can still be accessed by 
.SM DOS\s0.
.TP
.I baud
is the baud rate.
.TP
.I model
indicates the manufacturer or kind of device.
For printers, this can be
.BR epson ,
.BR hp ,
or
.BR text ,
for Epson and compatibles,
.SM HP
Laserjet and compatibles, or
for text-only printers.
For terminals, this can be
.B vt100
or
.BR wyse-50
for 
.SM DEC VT\s0-100
and compatibles or
for Wyse WY-50 and compatibles.
For modems, this can be
.B hayes
for Hayes and compatibles.
.TP
.I name
is only used for unique naming of printers on the network.
Up to 16 characters can be entered.
This field is blank for terminals and modems \(em simply insert a
.SM TAB 
character.
.TP
.I #comment
can contain anything you want, up to a maximum of 96 characters.
.br
.ne 8
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
In this example of an
.B ext_ports
file, the system vulcan has an epson printer attached
to its parallel port, and a Wyse-50 terminal attached to its 
serial port, but with logins currently disabled.
The system android has a
.SM VT\s0100
attached to its serial port,
with logins enabled.
The system polaris has a
.B hayes
modem set for dialing out on
an installed
.SM AT
bus serial card.
.LP
.RS
.if n .in -1i
.TS
;
lB lB lB lB lB lB lB .
vulcan:pp0	printer	on	9600	epson	lp	#Engineering lab
android:ttya	terminal	on	9600	vt100		#Reception
vulcan:ttya	terminal	off	9600	wyse-50		#Engineering lab
polaris:ttym0	modem	in_out	2400	hayes		#QA lab
.TE
.if n .in +1i
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/ext_ports
.PD
.br
.ne 5
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR snap (1),
.BR vipw (8)
.LP
.IR "Sun386i System and Network Administration" ,
.br
.I Sun386i Advanced Administration
.SH BUGS
.LP
The
.B /etc/ext_ports
file must be locked against simultaneous changes when it is edited;
.BR vipw (8)
does the necessary locking.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
