.\" @(#)fbtab.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new for 4.1
.TH FBTAB 5 "26 January 1990"
.SH NAME
fbtab \- framebuffer table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/fbtab
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "fbtab" "" "\fLfbtab\fP \(em framebuffer table"
.IX "framebuffer" "fbtab" "framebuffer" "\fLfbtab\fP \(em framebuffer table"
.LP
The
.B /etc/fbtab
file contains information that is used by
.BR login (1),
.BR getty (8)
and the window system
(for example,
.BR sunview (1))
to change the owner, group, and permissions of window
system devices upon logging into or out of a console device. 
By default,
.I all
lines in this file are commented out.
That is, all window security is disabled.
To enable window security, edit
.BR /etc/fbtab ,
log out, and log back in.
You
.I must
edit this file before window security can be enabled.
.LP
The owner and group of the devices listed in
.B /etc/fbtab
are set to the owner and group of the console.
The permissions are set as specified in
.BR /etc/fbtab .
As in the example below,
.B 0600
is the recommended permissions for normal security.
.LP
Fields are separated by
.SM TAB
and/or
.SM SPACE
characters.
Blank lines and comments can appear anywhere in the file;
comments are delimited by
.RB ` # '
and a
.SM NEWLINE\s0.
.LP
The first field specifies the name of a console device
(for example,
.BR /dev/console ).
The second field specifies the permissions to which the devices
in the
.I device_list
field (third field) will be set.
A
.I device_list
is a colon-separated list of device names
(the full pathname is required).
.LP
Once the devices are owned by the user, their permissions
and ownership can be changed using
.BR chmod (1V)
and
.BR chown (8),
as with any other user-owned file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following example entry in the
.BR /etc/fbtab
file enables normal window security:
.IP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
/dev/console 0600	/dev/kbd:/dev/mouse
/dev/console 0600	/dev/fb:/dev/bwone0:/dev/bwtwo0
/dev/console 0600	/dev/cgone0:/dev/cgtwo0:/dev/cgthree0:/dev/cgfour0
/dev/console 0600	/dev/cgsix0:/dev/cgeight0:/dev/cgnine0
/dev/console 0600	/dev/gpone0a:/dev/gpone0b:/dev/gpone0c:/dev/gpone0d
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
This entry specifies that upon login to
.BR /dev/console ,
the owner, group and permissions of
all supported devices
will be set to the user's username, the user's group and
.BR 0600 ,
respectively.
You need only specify the devices supported by your configuration.
Upon logout, the owner and group of
these devices will be reset to
.B root 
and
.BR wheel .
The permissions remain as set in the
.B /etc/fbtab
file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR login (1),
.BR sunview (1),
.BR sv_acquire (1),
.BR getty (8)
