.\" @(#)fspec.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH FSPEC 5 "7 January 1988"
.SH NAME
fspec \- format specification in text files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX fspec "" "\fLfspec\fR text file tabstop specifications"
.IX tabstops "" "tabstop specifications in text files \(em \fLfspec\fR"
.LP
It is sometimes convenient to
maintain text files on the
operating system with non-standard tab stop settings, (that is,
tab stops that are not set at every eighth column).
Such files must generally be converted
to a standard format,
frequently by replacing all
.SM TAB
characters with the appropriate number of
.SM SPACE
characters, before they can be processed by
operating system commands.
A format specification
occurring in the first line of a text file
specifies how
.SM TAB
characters are to be expanded in the remainder of the file.
.LP
A format specification consists of a sequence of parameters
separated by blanks and surrounded by the brackets
.B <:
and
.BR :> .
Each parameter consists of a keyletter,
possibly followed immediately by a value.
The following parameters are recognized:
.LP
.TP
.BI t \|tabs
The
.B t
parameter specifies
the tab stop settings for the file.
The value of
.I tabs
must be one of the following:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
A list of column numbers separated by commas,
indicating tab stops set at the specified columns;
.TP
\(bu
A
.RB ` \- '
followed immediately by an integer
.IR n ,
indicating tab stops set at intervals of
.I n
columns, that is, at
.RI 1+ n ,
.RI 1+2* n ,
and so on;
.TP
\(bu
A
.RB ` \- '
followed by the name of a ``canned'' tab stop specification.
.RE
.LP
Up to 40 numbers are allowed in a comma-separated list of tab stop settings.
If any number (except the first one) is preceded by a plus sign, it is taken
as an increment to be added to the previous value.
Thus, the formats
.B "t1, 10, 20, 30"
and
.B "t1, 10, +10, +10"
are considered identical.
.LP
Standard tab stops are specified by
.BR t\-8 ,
or equivalently,
.BR "t1, 9, 17, 25, " etc.
This is the tab stop setting that most operating system utilities assume, and
is the most likely setting to be found at a terminal.
The specification
.B t\-0
specifies no tab stops at all.
.LP
The ``canned'' tab stops specifications that are recognized are as follows:
.RS
.TP 10
.B a
1, 10, 16, 36, 72
.br
Assembler,
.SM IBM
S/370, first format
.TP
.B a2
1, 10, 16, 40, 72
.br
Assembler,
.SM IBM
S/370, second format
.TP
.B c
1, 8, 12, 16, 20, 55
.br
.SM COBOL\s0,
normal format
.TP
.B c2
1, 6, 10, 14, 49
.br
.SM COBOL\s0
compact format (columns 1-6 omitted).
Using this code, the first typed
character corresponds to card column 7,
one space gets you to column 8, and a
.SM TAB
reaches column 12.  Files using this tab stop
setup should include a format specification
as follows:
.RS
.RS
.B "<:t\-c2 \|m6 \|s66 \|d:>"
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B c3
1, 6, 10, 14, 18, 22, 26, 30, 34, 38, 42, 46, 50, 54, 58, 62, 67
.br
.SM COBOL\s0
compact format (columns 1-6 omitted), with more tab stops than
.BR c2 .
This is the recommended format for
.SM COBOL\s0.
The appropriate format specification is:
.RS
.RS
.B "<:t\-c3 \|m6 \|s66 \|d:>"
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B f
1, 7, 11, 15, 19, 23
.br
.SM FORTRAN
.TP
.B p
1, 5, 9, 13, 17, 21, 25, 29, 33, 37, 41, 45, 49, 53, 57, 61
.br
.SM PL/I
.TP
.B s
1, 10, 55
.br
.SM SNOBOL
.TP
.B u
1, 12, 20, 44
.br
.SM UNIVAC
1100
Assembler
.RE
.TP
.BI s \|size
The
.B s
parameter specifies a maximum line size.
The value of
.B size
must be an integer.
Size checking is performed after
.SM TAB
characters have been expanded,
but before the margin is prepended.
.TP
.BI m \|margin
The
.B m
parameter specifies a number of
.SM SPACE
characters to be prepended to each line.
The value of
.I margin
must be an integer.
.TP
.B d
The
.B d
parameter takes no value.
Its presence indicates that the line containing the format specification
is to be deleted from the converted file.
.TP
.B e
The
.B e
parameter takes no value.
Its presence indicates that the current format is to prevail
only until another format specification
is encountered in the file.
.LP
Default values, which are assumed for parameters not supplied,
are
.B t\-8
and
.BR m0 .
If the
.B s
parameter is not specified, no size checking is performed.
If the first line of a file does not contain a format specification,
the above defaults are assumed for the entire file.
The following is an example of a line containing a format specification:
.LP
.RS
.B \(** <:t5,10,15 s72:> \(**
.RE
.LP
If a format specification can be disguised as a comment,
it is not necessary to code the
.B d
parameter.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ed (1),
.BR tabs (1V)
