.\" @(#)fstab.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH FSTAB 5 "18 June 1991"
.SH NAME
fstab, mtab \- static file system mounting table, mounted file systems table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/fstab
.LP
.B /etc/mtab
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "fstab file"  ""  "\fLfstab\fP \(em file mountable information"
.IX  "file system"  "fstab file"  ""  "\fLfstab\fP \(em static information"
.IX  "static file system information mntent"  ""  "static file system information \(em \fLfstab\fP"
.IX  "mtab file"  ""  "\fLmtab\fP \(em mounted file system table"
.IX  "mounted file system table"  ""  "mounted file system table \(em \fLmtab\fP"
.IX  "file system"  "mounted table"  ""  "mounted table \(em \fLmtab\fP"
.LP
The
.B /etc/fstab
file contains entries for file systems and disk partitions to mount
using the
.BR mount (8)
command, which is normally invoked by the
.B rc.boot
script at boot time.
This file is used by various utilities that
mount, unmount, check the consistency of, dump, and restore file systems.
It is also used by the system itself when locating the swap partition.
.LP
The
.B /etc/mtab
file contains entries for file systems
.I currently
mounted, and is read by programs using the routines described in
.BR getmntent (3).
.BR umount (8)
removes entries from this file; 
.B mount
adds entries to this file.
.LP
Each entry consists of a line of the form:
.IP
.I
filesystem\ \ \ directory\ \ \ type\ \ \ options\ \ \ freq\ \ \ pass
.LP
.TP 10
.I filesystem
is the pathname of a block-special device, the name of a remote
file system in
.IB host : pathname
form, or the name of a \*(lqswap file\*(rq made with
.BR mkfile (8).
.TP
.I directory
is the pathname of the directory on which to mount the file system.
.TP
.I type
is the file system type, which can be one of:
.RS
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 8
.B 4.2
to mount a block-special device
.TP
.B lo
to loopback-mount a file system
.TP
.B nfs
to mount an exported
.SM NFS
file system
.TP
.B swap
to indicate a swap partition
.TP
.B ignore
to have the
.B mount
command ignore the current entry (good
for noting disk partitions that are not being used)
.TP
.B rfs
to mount an
.SM RFS
file system
.TP
.B tmp
file system in virtual memory
.TP
.B hsfs
to mount an
.SM ISO
9660 Standard or High Sierra Standard with Rock Ridge extensions
.SM CD-ROM
file system
.PD
.RE
.RE
.TP
.I options
contains a comma-separated list (no spaces) of mounting options,
some of which can be applied to all types of file systems, and
others which only apply to specific types.
.RS
.LP
.B 4.2
options:
.RS
.TP 14
.BR quota \||\| noquota
Disk quotas are enforced or not enforced.
The default is
.BR noquota .
.RE
.LP
.B nfs
options:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 8
.BR bg \||\| fg
If the first attempt fails, retry in the background, or,
in the foreground.
.TP
.BR noquota
Prevent
.BR quota (1)
from checking whether the user is over quota on this file system;
if the file system has quotas enabled on the server, quotas will still
be checked for operations on this file system.
.TP
.BI retry= n
The number of times to retry the mount operation.
.TP
.BI rsize= n
Set the read buffer size to
.I n
bytes.
.TP
.BI wsize= n
Set the write buffer size to
.I n
bytes.
.TP
.BI timeo= n
Set the
.SM NFS
timeout to
.I n
tenths of a second.
.TP
.BI retrans= n
The number of
.SM NFS
retransmissions.
.TP
.BI port= n
The server
.SM IP
port number.
.TP
.BR soft \||\| hard
Return an error if the server does not
respond, or continue the
retry request until the server responds.
.TP
.B intr
Allow keyboard interrupts on hard mounts.
.TP
.B secure
Use a more secure protocol for
.SM NFS
transactions.
.TP
.BI acregmin= n
Hold cached attributes for at least
.I n
seconds after file modification.
.TP
.BI acregmax= n
Hold cached attributes for no more than
.I n
seconds after file modification.
.TP
.BI acdirmin= n
Hold cached attributes for at least
.I n
seconds after directory update.
.TP
.BI acdirmax= n
Hold cached attributes for no more than
.I n
seconds after directory update.
.TP
.BI actimeo= n
Set
.I min
and
.I max
times for regular files and directories to
.I n
seconds.
.TP
.B noac
Suppress attribute caching.
.PD
.LP
Regular defaults are:
.RS
.nf
.ft B
fg,retry=10000,timeo=7,retrans=3,port=\s-1NFS_PORT\s0,hard,\e
acregmin=3,acregmax=60,acdirmin=30,acdirmax=60
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
.B actimeo
has no default; it sets
.BR acregmin ,
.BR acregmax ,
.B acdirmin
and
.B acdirmax
.LP
Defaults for
.B rsize
and
.B wsize
are set internally by the system kernel.
.RE
.LP
.B rfs
options:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 14
.BR bg \||\| fg
If the first attempt fails, retry in the background, or,
in the foreground.
.TP
.BI retry= n
The number of times to retry the mount operation.
.PD
.LP
Defaults are the same as for NFS.
.PD
.RE
.LP
.B hsfs
options:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 14
.BR norrip
Disable processing of Rock Ridge extensions for the file system.
.PD
.RE
.LP
Common options:
.RS
.TP 8
.BR ro \||\| rw
mount either read-only or read-write
.PD 0
.TP
.BR suid \||\| nosuid
setuid execution allowed or disallowed
.TP
.B grpid
Create files with
.SM BSD
semantics for propagation of the group
.SM ID\s0.
With this option, files inherit the group
.SM ID
of the directory in
which they are created, regardless of the directory's setgid bit.
.TP
.B noauto
Do not mount this file system automatically (using
.RB ` "mount \-a" ').
.PD
.RE
.RE
.TP
.I freq
is the interval (in days) between dumps.
.TP
.I pass
indicates whether
.BR fsck (8)
should check the partition.
File systems with
.I pass
0 are not checked.
When preening the file systems in
.BR /etc/fstab ,
.BR fsck (8)
automatically overlaps file system checks
by simultaneously running one process per disk.
If run in ``force'' mode (\fB\-f\fP), \fBfsck\fP
checks file systems with pass 1 sequentially,
then overlaps the remainder of the file systems checks.
In general, only the root (/) and /usr file systems need to be
checked in pass 1, with others checked in the second pass.
.LP
A hash-sign
.RB ( # )
as the first character indicates a comment line which
is ignored by routines that read this file.
The order of records in
.B /etc/fstab
is important because
.BR fsck ,
.BR mount ,
and
.B umount
process the file sequentially; an entry for a file system must appear
.I after
the entry for any file system it is to be mounted on top of.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
In this example, two partitions on the local disk are
.B 4.2
mounted.  Several
.B /export
directories are loopback mounted to appear in
the traditional file system locations on the local system.  The
.B /home/user
directory is hard mounted read-write over the
.SM NFS\s0,
along with  additional swap space in the form of a mounted swap file
(see
.I "System and Network Administration"
for details on adding swap space):
.LP
.RS
.if t \fL
.if n \fB
.nf
/dev/xy0a / 4.2 rw,noquota 1 1
/dev/xy0b /usr 4.2 rw,noquota 1 1
/export/tmp/localhost /tmp lo rw 0 0
/export/var/localhost /var lo rw 0 0
/export/cluster/sun386.sunos4.0.1 /usr/cluster lo rw 0 0
/export/local/sun386 /usr/local lo rw 0 0
example:/home/user /home/user nfs rw,hard,fg 0 0
/export/swap/myswap swap swap rw 0 0
.fi
.if t \fR
.if n \fR
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/fstab
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR swapon (2),
.BR getmntent (3),
.BR lofs (4S),
.BR fsck (8),
.BR mkfile (8),
.BR mount (8),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR swapon (8)
.LP
.I "System and Network Administration"
