'\" t
.\" @(#)group.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH GROUP 5 "14 December 1987"
.SH NAME
group \- group file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/group
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "group file"  ""  "\fLgroup\fP \(em group file format"
.LP
The
.B group
file contains a one-line entry for
each group recognized by the system,
of the form:
.IP
.IB groupname : password :\c
.IB gid : user-list
.LP
where:
.TP 15
.I "groupname"
is the name of the group.
.\" .TP
.\" .I "password"
.\" is the encrypted group password, or the string
.\" .BI  #$ groupname
.\" if the encrypted password is to be found in the
.\" .B /etc/security/group.adjunct
.\" file (see
.\" .BR group.adjunct (5)).
.TP
.I gid
is the group's numerical
.SM ID
within the system; it must be unique.
.TP
.I user-list
is a comma-separated list of users allowed in the group.
.LP
If the password field is empty, no password is demanded.
The
.B group
file is an
.SM ASCII
file.  Because of the encrypted passwords, the
.B group
file can and does have general read permission,
and can be used as a mapping of numerical group
.SM ID\s0s
to group names.
.LP
A group entry beginning with a
.RB ` + '
(plus sign), means to incorporate an entry
or entries from the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
A
.RB ` + '
on a line by itself means to insert the entire contents
of the 
.SM NIS
group file at that point in the file.  An
entry of the form:
.RB ` + \fIgroupname\fR'
means to insert the entry (if any) for
.BR groupname .
If a
.RB ` + '
entry has a non-empty
.I password
or
.I user-list
field, the contents of that field override
the corresponding field from the 
.SM NIS
service.
The
.I gid
field cannot be overridden in this way.
.LP
An entry of the form:
.BI \- groupname
indicates that the group is disallowed.
All subsequent entries for the indicated
.IR groupname ,
whether originating from the 
.SM NIS
service,
or the local
.B group
file, are ignored.
.LP
Malformed entries cause routines that
read this file to halt, in which case group
assignments specified further along are never
made.  To prevent this from happening, use
.BR grpck (8)
to check the
.B /etc/group
database from time to time.
.LP
Sun386i systems uses the following group
.SM ID\s0s
as program privileges:
.LP
.TS
lb r l .
operator	5	Privilege to do backup as root.
accounts	11	Privilege to update user accounts.
networks	12	Privilege to change network configuration.
devices	13	Privilege to modify printer, terminal, or modem configurations.
.TE
.LP
On all Sun systems, Sun\s-1OS\s0 uses group
.SM ID
0 as privilege to run 
.BR su (1V).
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Here is a sample group file when the
.B group.adjunct
file does not exist:
.RS
.LP
.ft B
.nf
primary:q.mJzTnu8icF.:10:fred,mary
+myproject:::bill,steve
+:
.fi
.ft R
.LP
.RE
Here is a sample group file when the
.B group.adjunct
file does exist:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
primary:#$primary:10:fred,mary
+myproject:::bill,steve
+:
.fi
.ft R
.LP
.RE
If these entries appear at the end of
a group file, then the group
.I primary
will have members
.B fred
and
.BR mary ,
and a group
.SM ID
of
.BR 10 .
The group
.I myproject
will have members
.B bill
and
.BR steve ,
and the password and group
.SM ID
of the 
.SM NIS
entry for the group
.BR myproject .
All groups listed in the 
.SM NIS
service are pulled in and placed after the entry for
.BR myproject .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/group
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /group.byname
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /group.bygid
.\" .TP
.\" .B /etc/security/group.adjunct
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR passwd (1),
.BR su (1V),
.BR getgroups (2V),
.BR crypt (3),
.BR initgroups (3),
.BR group.adjunct (5),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR grpck (8V)
.SH NOTES
.LP
SunOS releases prior to SunOS 4.0, permitted a user to belong to no more
then eight groups at a time.
A user who belongs to more than eight
groups may have trouble using the 
.SM RPC
service (and therefore
.SM NFS\s0)
to communicate
with machines running older releases.
In such cases,
.SM RPC
complains of an "Authentication Error".
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The
.BR passwd (1)
command will not change group passwords.
