.\" @(#)help.5	1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH HELP 5 "19 February 1988"
.SH NAME
help \- help file format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/help/*
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "help datafile"  ""  "\fLhelp\fP \(em get help"
.IX "datafile"  "help datafile"  ""  "\fLhelp\fP \(em get help"
Each SunView application using the 
.B help
feature has a simple
.SM ASCII
file in
.B /usr/lib/help
with the name
.IB application-name .info .
.LP
This file contains the text of help messages for each SunView object
within that program. Each help message is separated in the file by a line
beginning with a colon and identified by a keyword
which matches the
.SM HELP_DATA
attribute of the SunView object.
.LP
The first character of each line in the file may be:
.sp
	#			comment line
.br
	:			keyword line
.br
	any other		1-32 help text lines
.sp
If the line is a keyword line, it has the following structure\(em
.sp
	:keyword[s]:datastring [pagenumber]\s-1NEWLINE\s0
.sp
.nf
\fIkeyword\fP			is a 1-65 character keyword 
.br
				--any displayable characters may be used
.br
				--several keywords may be present
.br
				--keywords are separated by 1-or-more blanks
.sp
\fIdatastring\fP		is 1-256 \s-1ASCII\s0 bytes, and describes the path of the data files for 
.br
			help_viewer, relative to /usr/lib/help.
.sp
\fIpagenumber\fP		is an optional page number within the help_viewer data file.

.fi
.LP
The help text which follows the :keyword line will be displayed in
an Alert Box when help is requested for one of the keywords by pressing
the help key.
.sp
The datastring will be sent (by
.SM RPC\s0)
to the
.B help_viewer
procedure when the user selects the More Help box in the Alert Box window.
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is part of a typical help file, called
.BR mailtool.info .
.LP
.nf
.ft B
:abort
   Abort button

o  Quits the Mail application (click 
   left on button). Tentative message
   deletions do not become permanent.

o  Provides a menu of Abort options
   (click right on button).

:cancel:mailtool/Writing_and_Sending_Mail 1
   Cancel button

o  Closes the message composition 
   window without sending message
   (click left on button).

o  Provides a menu of Cancel options
   (click right on button).
.fi
.ft
.LP
Pressing the help key while in the cancel or abort buttons triggers 
the display of the corresponding text. The words 
.I cancel
and
.I abort
in this file are the keywords. In the case of abort, there is no
More Help available. For cancel, More Help is available and it is stored in
the first page of the
.B Writing_and_Sending_Mail
file in the mailtool directory.
.SH FILES
.LP
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/help/*
files for the pop-up help facility
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR help_viewer (1),
.BR help_viewer (5)
.LP
\fISun386i Developer's Guide\fP
