.\" @(#)hosts.equiv.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH HOSTS.EQUIV 5 "24 January 1990"
.SH NAME
hosts.equiv, .rhosts \- trusted remote hosts and users
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "hosts.equiv file"  ""  "\fLhosts.equiv\fP \(em trusted hosts list"
.IX  "trusted hosts list"  ""  "trusted hosts list \(em \fLhosts.equiv\fP"
.LP
The 
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
and
.B .rhosts
files provide the ``remote authentication'' database for
.BR rlogin (1C),
.BR rsh (1C),
.BR rcp (1C),
and
.BR rcmd (3N).
The files specify remote hosts and users
that are considered 
.IR trusted .
Trusted users are allowed to access the local system
\fIwithout supplying a password.\fR
The library routine
.B ruserok(\|)
(see
.BR rcmd (3N))
performs the authentication procedure for programs by using the
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
and
.B .rhosts
files.
The 
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
file applies to the entire system,
while individual users can maintain their own
.B .rhosts
files in their home directories.
.LP
These files \fI bypass\fR the standard
password-based user authentication mechanism.
To maintain system security,
care must be taken in creating and maintaining these files.
.LP
The remote authentication procedure determines whether
a particular remote user from a particular remote host should be
allowed to access the local system as a (possibly different)
particular local user.
This procedure first checks the
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
file and then checks the
.B .rhosts
file in the home directory of the local user as whom access
is being attempted.
Entries in these files can be of two forms.
.I Positive 
entries explicitly 
.I allow
access, while 
.I negative
entries explicitly
.I deny
access.
The authentication succeeds as soon as a matching positive entry is found.
The procedure fails when a matching negative entry is found, or if no
matching entries are found in either file.
The order of entries, therefore, can be important:
If the files contain both matching positive and negative entries,
the entry that appears first will prevail.
The
.BR rsh (1C)
and
.BR rcp (1C)
programs fail if the remote authentication procedure fails.
The
.B rlogin 
program will fall back
to the standard password-based login procedure if the
remote authentication fails.
.LP
Both files are formatted as
a list of one-line entries.  Each entry has the form:
.IP
.IR hostname " [" username "] "
.LP
Negative entries are differentiated from positive
entries by a `-' character preceding either the 
.I hostname
or
.I username
field.
.SS Positive Entries
.LP
If the form:
.IP
.I hostname 
.LP
is used, then users from the named host are trusted.
That is, they may access the system with the same user name
as they have on the remote system.
This form may be used in both the 
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
and
.B .rhosts
files.
.LP
If the line is in the form:
.IP
.I hostname username
.LP
then the named user from the named host can access the system.
This form may be used in individual
.B .rhosts
files to allow 
remote users to access the system
\fIas a different local user.\fR
If this form is used in the
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
file, the named remote user will be allowed to access the system as 
.I any 
local user.
.LP
Netgroups(5) can be used in either the 
.I hostname
or
.I username
fields to match a number of hosts or users in one entry.
The form:
.IP
.BI +@ netgroup
.LP
allows access from all hosts in the named netgroup.
When used in the
.I username
field,
netgroups allow a group of remote users to access the system
as a particular local user.  The form:
.IP
.I hostname
.BI +@ netgroup
.LP
allows all of the users in the named netgroup from the named host to
access the system as the local user.
The form:
.IP
.BI +@ netgroup1
.BI +@ netgroup2
.LP
allows the users in
.I netgroup2
from the hosts in
.I netgroup1
to access the system as the local user.
.LP
The special character `+' can be used in place of either
.I hostname
or
.I username
to match any host or user.
For example, the entry
.IP
.B +
.LP
will allow a user from any remote host to access the system
with the same username.
The entry
.IP
.B +
.I username
.LP
will allow the named user from any remote host to access the
system.
The entry
.IP
.I hostname
.B +
.LP
will allow any user from the named host to access the system
as the local user.
.SS Negative Entries
.LP
Negative entries are preceded by a `-' sign.
The form:
.IP
.BI - hostname
.LP
will disallow all access from the named host.
The form:
.IP
.BI \-@ netgroup
.LP
means that access is explicitly disallowed from all hosts in the
named netgroup.
The form:
.IP
.I hostname 
.BI \- username
.LP
disallows access by the named user only from the named host,
while the form:
.IP
.B +
.BI \-@ netgroup
.LP
will disallow access by all of the users in the named netgroup from all hosts.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
.TP
.B ~/.rhosts
.PD
.SH NOTES
.LP
Hostnames in
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
and
.B .rhosts
files must be the ``official'' name of the host, not one of its
nicnames.
.LP
Root access is handled as a special case.  Only the
.I /.rhosts
file is checked when the access is being attempted for root.
To help maintain system security, the
.I /etc/hosts.equiv
file is not checked.
.LP
As a security feature, the
.I .rhosts
file must be owned by the user as whom access is being
attempted.
.LP
Positive entries in
.I /etc/hosts.equiv
that include a
.I username
field (either an individual named user, a netgroup, or `+' sign) should be
used only with extreme caution.
Because 
.I /etc/hosts.equiv
applies system-wide, these entries 
allow one or a group of remote users to access the system
.I as any local user.
This can be the source of a security hole.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rlogin (1C),
.BR rsh (1C),
.BR rcp (1C),
.BR rcmd (3N),
.BR hosts (5),
.BR netgroup (5),
.BR passwd (5)
