.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)inetd.conf.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD 6.4
.\"
.TH INETD.CONF 5 "22 August 1989"
.SH NAME
inetd.conf \- Internet servers database
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "inetd.conf file"  ""  "\fLinetd.conf\fP \(em Internet server database"
.IX  "internet servers"  ""  "Internet servers database \(em \fLservers\fP"
.LP
The
.B inetd.conf
file contains the list of servers that
.BR inetd (8C)
invokes when it receives an Internet
request over a socket.  Each server entry is
composed of a single line of the form:
.IP
.I
service-name\ \ \ socket-type\ \ \ protocol\ \ \ wait-status\ \ \ uid\ \ \ server-program\ \ \ server-arguments
.LP
Fields can be separated by either spaces or
.SM TAB
characters. A
.RB ` # '
(pound-sign) indicates the beginning of a
comment; characters up to the end of the
line are not interpreted by routines that
search this file.
.TP 20
.I service-name
is the name of a valid service listed in the file
.BR /etc/services .
For
.SM RPC
services, the value of the
.I service-name
field consists of the
.SM RPC
service name, followed by a slash and either
a version number or a range of version numbers
(for example,
.BR mountd/1 ).
.TP
.I socket-type
can be one of:
.RS
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B stream
for a stream socket,
.TP
.B dgram
for a datagram socket,
.TP
.B raw
for a raw socket,
.TP
.B rdm
for a \*(lqreliably delivered message\*(rq socket, or
.TP
.B seqpacket
for a sequenced packet socket.
.PD
.RE
.RE
.TP
.I protocol
must be a recognized protocol listed in the file
.BR /etc/protocols .
For
.SM RPC
services, the field consists of the string \*(lqrpc\*(rq
followed by a slash and the name of
the protocol (for example,
.B rpc/udp
for an
.SM RPC
service using the
.SM UDP
protocol as a transport mechanism).
.TP
.I wait-status
is
.B nowait
for all but \*(lqsingle-threaded\*(rq datagram servers \(em servers which
do not release the socket until a timeout occurs (such as
.BR comsat (8C)
and
.BR talkd (8C)).
These must have the status
.BR wait .
Although
.BR tftpd (8C)
establishes separate \*(lqpseudo-connections\*(rq, its forking
behavior can lead to a race condition unless
it is also given the status
.BR wait .
.TP
.I uid
is the user
.SM ID
under which the server should run.  This allows
servers to run with access privileges
other than those for root.
.TP
.I server-program
is either the pathname of a server program
to be invoked by
.B inetd
to perform the requested service, or the value
.B internal
if
.B inetd
itself provides the service.
.TP
.I server-arguments
If a server must be invoked with command-line
arguments, the
entire command line (including argument 0) must appear
in this field (which consists of all remaining words in the entry).
If the server expects
.B inetd
to pass it the address of its peer
(for compatibility with 4.2\s-1BSD\s0
executable daemons), then the first argument
to the command should be specified as
.RB ` %A '.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/inetd.conf
.TP
.B /etc/services
.TP
.B /etc/protocols
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR services (5),
.BR comsat (8C),
.BR inetd (8C),
.BR talkd (8C),
.BR tftpd (8C)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B inetd
dumps core when the
.B inetd.conf
file contains blank lines.
