.\" @(#)ipalloc.netrange.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; 
.TH IPALLOC.NETRANGE 5 "19 February 1988"
.SH NAME
ipalloc.netrange \- range of addresses to allocate
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.B /etc/ipalloc.netrange
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "ipalloc.netrange file" "" "\fLipalloc.netrange\fP file"
.LP
This file, if it exists on the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
master of the
.B hosts.byaddr
map, specifies the ranges of 
.SM IP
addresses that can be allocated by the
.BR ipallocd (8C)
daemon.
This allows multiple address assignment authorities, probably in
multiple administrative domains, to coexist
on the same 
.SM IP
network by preallocating ranges of addresses.
If this file does not exist, the daemon assumes that all
addresses not listed in the
.B hosts
map may be freely allocated.
.PP
This file can contain blank lines.
Comments begin with a
.RB ` # '
character and extend to the end of the current line.
Ranges of free addresses are specified on one line per network
or subnetwork.
.PP
The first token on the line is the 
.SM IP
address, in four part \*(lqdot\*(lq notation
as also used in the
.B hosts
file, of the network or subnetwork described.
It is separated from the second token by white space.
The second token is a comma-separated list of local host number ranges on that
network.
These ranges take two forms:
a single number specifies just that local host number,
and two numbers separated by a dash specify all local host
numbers starting at the first number and ending at the second.
In the case of a subnet, host numbers not in that subnet are excluded.
.PP
For example, the following file would specify that a subset of the
addresses on the class C network 192.9.200.0 may be allocated, and
only some of the addresses on two particular
subnets of the class B network 128.255.0.0 may be allocated.
In any case, only non-broadcast addresses not listed in the
.B hosts
map are subject to allocation:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
# We have three network cables administered using automatic
# IP address allocation.
.sp
192.9.200.0		50-100,200-254
128.255.210.0		3,5,7,9,100-110
128.255.211.0		1-254
.ft
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR hosts (5),
.BR netmasks (5),
.BR ipallocd (8C)
.SH BUGS
.LP
There is a silent limit of twenty ranges per network.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
