.\" @(#)locale.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH LOCALE 5 "2 February 1990"
.SH NAME
locale \- locale database 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI /usr/share/lib/locale/ category/locale
.LP
.BI /etc/locale/ category/locale
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "locale file"  ""  "\fLlocale\fP \(em localization data base"
.LP
The
.I category
directory contains information relating to one category
of the complete list of categories that comprise a full locale for 
all systems sharing this directory.
.I locale
is either a file or a directory that contains information relating to the 
relevant category indicated by its parent directory
.IR category .
.I locale 
is the name that is given to describe the style of operation required by an
application in a particular language, territory or code-set.
.LP
At runtime these directories will be accessed if the application has made a 
valid call to:
.IP
\fBsetlocale(\fP\fIcategory,\|locale\fP\fB)\fP
.LP
where 
.I category
can be any one of the following settings:
.TP 15
.SB LC_COLLATE
Collation order.
Affects the behavior of regular expressions and the string functions
defined in
.BR strcoll (3).
.TP
.SB LC_CTYPE
Character classification and case conversion.
Affects the behavior of regular expressions and the character handling
functions defined in
.BR toascii (3),
and
.BR ctime (3V).
.TP
.SB LC_MONETARY
Monetary formatting.
Affects the behavior of functions that handle monetary values.
.TP
.SB LC_NUMERIC
Numeric delimiters.
Affects the radix character of the formatted input/output
functions defined in
.BR printf (3V)
and
.BR scanf (3V),
and the conversion functions defined in
.BR strtod (3).
.TP
.SB LC_TIME
Date and time formats.
Affects the behavior of the time functions defined in
.BR ctime (3V).
.TP
.SB LC_MESSAGES
Message presentation style.
Affects the behavior of the string access functions defined in
.BR catgets (3C)
and 
.BR gettext (3).
.TP
.SB NLSPATH
Contains a sequence of pseudo-pathnames which 
.BR catopen (3C)
uses when attempting to locate message catalogs.
Each pseudo-pathname
contains a name template consisting of an optional path-prefix, one or more
substitution fields, a filename
and an optional filename suffix.
.LP
Substitution fields consist of a
.B % 
symbol, followed by a single-letter keyword.
The following keywords are currently defined:
.RS
.TP 6
.B %N
The value of the 
.I name 
parameter passed to
.BR catopen (3C).
.TP 6
.B %L
The value of the 
.SB LANG
environment variable.
.TP 6
.B %%
A single
.B %
character.
.RE
.LP
A null string is sustituted if the specified value is not defined.
Pathnames defined in 
.SB NLSPATH
are separated by colons 
.RB ( : ).
A leading or two adjacent colons indicate the current directory.
For example:
.IP 
.ft B
\s-1NLSPATH\s0=":%N.cat:/nlslib/%L/%N.cat"
.ft R
.LP
Indicates to 
.BR catopen (3C)
that it should look for the requested message catalog in
.I name, name.cat
and
.I /nlslib/\fB\s-1$LANG\s+1\fP/name.cat.
The
.SB LC_ALL
and
.SB LANG
environment variables do not commute to real directories or files but
instead relate to a locale that is a assumed to be valid
for all of the above categories. 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR catgets (3C),
.BR catopen (3C),
.BR ctime (3V),
.BR gettext (3),
.BR printf (3V),
.BR scanf (3V),
.BR setlocale (3V),
.BR strcoll (3)
.BR strtod (3),
.BR toascii (3V)
