.\" @(#)magic.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH MAGIC 5 "19 October 1987"
.SH NAME
magic \- file command's magic number file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "magic file" "" "\fLmagic\fR file \(em \fLfile\fR command's magic numbers table"
.LP
The
.BR file (1)
command identifies the type of a file using,
among other tests,
a test for whether the file begins with a certain
.IR "magic number" .
The file
.B /etc/magic
specifies what magic numbers are to be tested for,
what message to print if a particular magic
number is found,
and additional information to extract from the file.
.LP
Each line of the file specifies a test to be performed.
A test compares the data starting at a particular offset
in the file with a 1-byte, 2-byte, or 4-byte
numeric value or a string.  If the test succeeds,
a message is printed.
The line consists of the following fields:
.IP
.I offset	type	value	message
.TP 10
.I offset
A number specifying the offset, in bytes,
into the file of the data which is to be tested.
.TP
.I type
The type of the data to be tested.
The possible values are:
.RS
.TP
.B byte
A one-byte value.
.TP
.B short
A two-byte value.
.TP
.B long
A four-byte value.
.TP
.B string
A string of bytes.
.RE
.IP
The types
.BR byte ,
.BR short ,
and
.B long
may optionally be followed by a mask
specifier of the form
.BI & number\fR.
If a mask specifier is given, the value is
.SM AND\s0'ed
with the
.I number
before any comparisons are done.  The
.I number
is specified in C form.
For instance,
.B 13
is decimal,
.B 013
is octal, and
.B 0x13
is hexadecimal.
.TP
.I value
The value to be compared with the value from
the file.  If the type is numeric, this value
is specified in
.B C
form.
If it is a string, it is specified as a
.B C
string with the usual escapes permitted
(for instance, \en for
.SM NEWLINE\s0).
.IP
.I Numeric values
may be preceded by a character indicating
the operation to be performed.  It may be
.RB ` = ',
to specify that the value from the file
must equal the specified value,
.RB  ` < ',
to specify that the value from the file
must be less than the specified value,
.RB ` > ',
to specify that the value from the file
must be greater than the specified value,
.RB ` & ',
to specify that all the bits in the specified
value must be set in the value from the file,
.RB ` ^ ',
to specify that at least one of the bits in
the specified value must not be set in the
value from the file, or
.B x
to specify that any value will match.
If the character is omitted, it is assumed to be
.RB ` = '.
.IP
For string values, the byte string from the
file must match the specified byte string.
The byte string from the file which is matched
is the same length as the specified byte string.
.TP
.I message
The message to be printed if the comparison
succeeds.  If the string contains a
.BR printf (3V)
format specification, the value from the
file (with any specified masking performed) is
printed using the message as the format string.
.LP
Some file formats contain additional information
which is to be printed along with the file type.
A line which begins with the character
.RB ` > '
indicates additional tests and messages to be
printed.  If the test on the line preceding the
first line with a
.RB ` > '
succeeds, the tests specified in all the subsequent
lines beginning with
.RB ` > '
are performed, and the messages printed if the
tests succeed.  The next line which does not
begin with a
.RB ` > '
terminates this.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/magic
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR file (1),
.BR printf (3V)
.SH BUGS
There should be more than one level of subtests,
with the level indicated by the number of
.RB ` > '
at the beginning of the line.
