.\" @(#)netgroup.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH NETGROUP 5 "22 December 1987"
.SH NAME
netgroup \- list of network groups
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "netgroup file"  ""  "\fLnetgroup\fP \(em network groups list"
.LP
.B netgroup
defines network wide groups,
used for permission checking when doing
remote mounts, remote logins, and remote shells.
For remote mounts, the information in
.B netgroup
is used to classify machines;
for remote logins and remote shells,
it is used to classify users.
Each line of the
.B netgroup
file defines a group and has the format
.IP
.I groupname list-of-members
.LP
where
.RI members
is either another group name, or a triple:
.IP
.RI ( hostname ,
.IR username ,
.IR domainname )
.LP
Any of these three fields can be empty,
in which case it signifies a wild card.
Thus
.IP
.B universal (\|,\|,\|)
.LP
defines a group to which everyone belongs.
.LP
The
.I domainname
field must either be the local domain name or empty
for the netgroup entry to be used.
This field does
.I not
limit the netgroup or provide security.
The
.I domainname
field refers to the domain in
which the triple is valid, not the
domain containing the trusted host.
.LP
A gateway machine should be listed under all possible hostnames by
which it may be recognized:
.IP
.B wan (gateway,\|,\|) (gateway-ebb,\|,\|)
.LP
Field names that begin with something
other than a letter, digit or underscore
(such as
.RB ` \- ')
work in precisely the opposite fashion.
For example, consider the following entries:
.RS
.nf
.ft B
justmachines	(analytica,\-,sun)
justpeople	(\-,babbage,sun)
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
The machine
.B analytica
belongs to the group
.B justmachines
in the domain
.BR sun ,
but no users belong to it.
Similarly, the user
.B babbage
belongs to the group
.B justpeople
in the domain
.BR sun ,
but no machines belong to it.
.\" .LP
.\" Network groups are contained in the Network Information Service
.\" (NIS\s0),
.\" and are accessed through these files:
.\" .RS
.\" .nf
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /netgroup.dir
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /netgroup.pag
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /netgroup.byuser.dir
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /netgroup.byuser.pag
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /netgroup.byhost.dir
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /netgroup.byhost.pag
.\" .fi
.\" .RE
.\" .LP
.\" These files can be created from
.\" .B /etc/netgroup
.\" using
.\" .BR makedbm (8).
.\".SH FILES
.\".PD 0
.\".TP 20
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /netgroup.dir
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /netgroup.pag
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /netgroup.byuser.dir
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /netgroup.byuser.pag
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /netgroup.byhost.dir
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /netgroup.byhost.pag
.\".PD
.IX  "trusted hosts list"  ""  "trusted hosts list \(em \fLhosts.equiv\fP"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getnetgrent (3N),
.BR exports (5),
.BR makedbm (8),
.BR ypserv (8)
.br
.ne 5
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
The triple,
.BI (\|,\|,\| domain )\fR,
allows all users and machines trusted access,
and has the same effect as the triple,
.B (\|,\|,\|).
.LP
To correctly restrict access to a specific set of members,
use the
.I hostname
and
.I username
fields of the triple.
