.\" @(#)netrc.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH NETRC 5 "19 October 1988"
.SH NAME
netrc \- file for ftp remote login data
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ftp remote login data"  ""  "\fLftp\fR \(em remote login data \(em \fL.netrc\fR file"
.IX  "netrc"  ""  "\fL.netrc\fP \(em \fLftp\fR remote login data file"
.LP
The
.B \&.netrc
file contains data for logging in to a
remote host over the network for file transfers by
.BR ftp (1C).
This file resides in the user's home directory
on the machine initiating the file transfer.
Its permissions should be set to
disallow read access by group and others (see
.BR chmod (1V)).
.LP
The following tokens
are recognized; they may be separated by
.SM SPACE\s0,
.SM TAB\s0,
or
.SM NEWLINE
characters:
.TP
.BI machine\fP  name
Identify a remote machine name.
The auto-login process searches the
.B .netrc
file for a
.B machine
token that matches the remote machine specified on the
.B ftp
command line or as an
.B open
command argument.
Once a match is made, the subsequent
.B .netrc
tokens are processed, stopping when the
.SM EOF
is reached or another
.B machine
token is encountered.
.TP
.BI login\fP " name"
Identify a user on the remote machine.
If this token is present, the auto-login
process will initiate a login using the specified name.
.TP
.BI password\fP " string"
Supply a password.  If this token is present,
the auto-login process will supply the
specified string if the remote server requires
a password as part of the login process.
Note: if this token is present in the
.B .netrc
file,
.B ftp
will abort the auto-login process if the
.B .netrc
is readable by anyone besides the user.
.TP
.BI account\fP " string"
Supply an additional account password.
If this token is present, the auto-login process
will supply the specified string if the remote
server requires an additional account password,
or the auto-login process will initiate an
.SB ACCT
command if it does not.
.TP
.BI macdef\fP " name"
Define a macro.
This token functions as the
.B ftp
.B macdef
command functions.  A macro is defined with the
specified name; its contents begin with the next
.B .netrc
line and continue until a
null line (consecutive
.SM NEWLINE
characters) is encountered.
If a macro named
.B init
is defined, it is automatically executed
as the last step in the
auto-login process.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
The command:
.IP
.ft B
machine ray login demo password mypassword
.ft R
.LP
allows an autologin to the machine 
.B ray
using the login name
.B demo
with password
.BR mypassword .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B ~/.netrc
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chmod (1V),
.BR ftp (1C),
.BR ftpd (8C)
