.\" @(#)orgrc.5	1.1 7/30/92 Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH ORGRC 5 "3 May 1989"
.SH NAME
orgrc \- organizer configuration and initialization file
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Sun386i systems only.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "orgrc file"  ""  "\fLorgrc\fP \(em organizer file" ""
.LP
.BR organizer (1)
is a SunView 1 application for viewing and manipulating files and
directories.
It saves its parameters in the
.B \&.orgrc
file between runs.
The user can use this file to configure
.BR organizer .
.LP
The first parameter in the file should always be the version number.
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
Version = 1.1
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
Change the version number only when necessary; if
.B organizer
determines that this version is \*(lqold\*(rq, then it will save this
version in 
.B ~/.orgrc.old 
and try to copy 
.B /usr/lib/Orgrc 
into 
.BR ~/.orgrc .
.LP
The next two parameters assign default names for the system
.SM DOS 
Program and the default text editor.
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
\s-1DOS\s0 Program = dos
Text Editor = textedit
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
The
.SM DOS
Program
parameter should not be changed. 
However, the user can change the
default text editor.
For example:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
Text Editor = shelltool vi
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
The Properties section initializes or customizes certain properties.  
The possible values for each item are listed below. 
The braces and vertical bars below indicate choices, they are not used in the
.B \&.orgrc
file.
The
.B Update Interval
is in seconds.
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
#  Properties
\s-1PROPERTY\s0 Display Style = {Name and Icon | Name Only | Name and Info}
\s-1PROPERTY\s0 Roadmap = {Yes | No}
\s-1PROPERTY\s0 Show Hidden Files = {Yes | No}
\s-1PROPERTY\s0 Sort Type = {Name | File Type | Size | Date}
\s-1PROPERTY\s0 Sort Direction = {Ascending | Descending}
\s-1PROPERTY\s0 Update Interval = [5-300]
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
The Color Palette specifies all the color values used by
.BR organizer 's
buttons and icons.  These values must be 
.SM RGB
triplets.  It is listed
below.
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
Begin Color Palette
    Background Color = 255, 255, 255
    Directory Name Color = 0, 146, 236
    Directory Icon Foreground Color = 114, 45, 0
    Directory Icon Background Color = 255, 227, 185
    Directory Highlight Name Color = 255, 255, 255
    Text Name Color = 0, 166, 143
    Text Icon Foreground Color = 0, 0, 0
    Text Icon Background Color = 255, 255, 255
    Text Highlight Name Color = 255, 255, 255
    Executable Name Color = 255, 0, 0
    Executable Icon Foreground Color = 157, 162, 187
    Executable Icon Background Color = 255, 255, 255
    Executable Highlight Name Color = 255, 255, 255
    Device Name Color = 113, 117, 135
    Device Icon Foreground Color = 0, 0, 0
    Device Icon Background Color = 174, 255, 159
    Device Highlight Name Color = 255, 255, 255
    Button Group1 Color = 255, 220, 187
    Button Group2 Color = 201, 211, 232
    Button Group3 Color = 255, 244, 113
    Button Foreground Color = 0, 0, 0
    Button Background Color = 255, 255, 255
    Button Shadow Color = 180, 180, 184
    Button Highlight Color = 0, 0, 0
    Scrollbar Color = 142, 106, 146
End Color Palette
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
The Color Labels
section allows the labelling or \*(lqaliasing\*(rq of 
.SM RGB
triplets.  The
right side of a label assignment can contain an 
.SM RGB 
triplet, a palette
entry, or another label that has already been assigned.  Here's an
example:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
Begin Color Labels
    Black = Text Icon Foreground Color
    White = Background Color
    Orange = 255, 213, 127
    Dark Red = 232, 0, 0
    Steel Blue = 114, 146, 161
    Rasberry \fR(sic)\fP = 202, 140, 156
    Dark Blue = 0, 75, 161
    Light Gray = 223, 223, 223
    Maroon = 182, 84, 106
End Color Labels
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
The rest of the
.B \&.orgrc
file contains user defined file types.  The user can specify that certain
files be grouped together and treated in a similar fashion.  That is,
the same icon is used to display all files in a file type, and the same
command is used when a file is opened or edited.  In the default
.B \&.orgrc 
(\fB/usr/lib/Orgrc\fP)
there are ten user defined file types.  Here is an example of a user
defined file type:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
Begin File Type Definition
    Name = *.c
    Background Icon = /usr/include/images/cMask.icon
    Foreground Icon = /usr/include/images/cStencil.icon
    Name Color = Black
    Icon Background Color = Orange
    Icon Foreground Color = Black
    Highlight Name Color = White
    Execute Application = cmdtool vi "$(\s-1FILE\s0)"
    Edit Application = cmdtool vi "$(\s-1FILE\s0)"
    Print Application = pr -f "$(\s-1FILE\s0)" | lpr
End File Type Definition
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
The right side of the
.B Name
field can contain any combination of
.BR csh (1)
.B Filename Substitution
characters.  This field specifies the file type by way of its name.  The
next six fields together specify an
.B organizer
icon.  This model allows a rich variety of icons.  For more
information, see the
.I Sun386i Advanced Skills
manual.  The right side of the
.B Execute Application
entry specifies the command to execute when the user either opens or
double clicks on a file of that type.  The
.B Edit Application
and
.B Print Application
entries specify the command to execute when the user requests that a file of
that type be edited or printed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B ~/.orgrc
read at beginning of execution by the Organizer
.TP
.B /usr/lib/Orgrc
default 
.B \&.orgrc
file
.PD
.br
.ne 5
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR organizer (1) 
.LP
.I Sun386i User's Guide
.br
.I Sun386i Advanced Skills
.SH LIMITATIONS
.LP
The right side of
Color Palette
entries must be 
.SM RGB
triplets.
.LP
Forward references for
Color Labels
are not allowed.
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B organizer
saves its parameters as it exits;
unfortunately, it does not know how to save user's
comments in the file.
So, comments are blown away.
