.\" @(#)passwd.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD
.TH PASSWD 5 "14 December 1987"
.SH NAME
passwd \- password file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/passwd
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "passwd file"  ""  "\fLpasswd\fP \(em password file"
.LP
The
.B passwd
file contains basic information about each
user's account.  This file contains a one-line
entry for each authorized user, of the form:
.IP
.nh
.IB username : password : uid :\c
.IB gid : gcos-field : home-dir :\c
.I login-shell
.hy
.LP
where
.TP 15
.I username
is the user's login name.  This field contains
no uppercase characters, and must not be more
than eight characters in length.
.TP
.I password
is the user's encrypted password,
or a string of the form:
.BI ## name
if the encrypted password is in the
.B /etc/security/passwd.adjunct
file (see
.BR passwd.adjunct (5)).
If this field is empty,
.BR login (1)
does not request a password before logging the user in.
.TP
.I "uid"
is the user's numerical
.SM ID
for the system, which must be unique.
.I uid
is generally a value between 0 and 32767.
.TP
.I gid
is the numerical
.SM ID
of the group that the user belongs to.
.I gid
is generally a value between 0 an 32767.
.TP
.I "gcos-field"
is the user's real name, along with
information to pass along in
a mail-message heading.  It is called the
gcos-field for historical reasons.  A
.B &
in this field stands for the login
name (in cases where the
login name appears in a user's real name).
.TP
.I "home-dir"
is the pathname to the directory in
which the user is initially
positioned upon logging in.
.TP
.I login-shell
is the user's initial shell program.
If this field is empty, the
default shell is
.BR /usr/bin/sh .
.LP
The
.B passwd
file can also have lines beginning with a
.RB ` + '
(plus sign)
which means to incorporate entries from the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0).
There are three styles of
.B +
entries in this file: by itself,
.B +
means to insert the entire contents
of the 
.SM NIS
password file at that point;
.BI + name
means to insert the entry (if any) for
.I name
from the 
.SM NIS
service at that point;
.BI +@ netgroup
means to insert the entries for all members of the network group
.B netgroup
at that point.
If a
.BI + name
entry has a non-null
.IR password ,
.SM
.IR gcos ,
.IR home-dir ,
or
.I login-shell
field,
the value of that field overrides what is
contained in the 
.SM NIS
service.
The
.I uid
and
.I gid
fields cannot be overridden.
.LP
The
.B passwd
file can also have lines beginning with a
.RB ` \- '
(minus sign)
which means to disallow entries from the 
.SM NIS
service.
There are two styles of
.RB ` \- '
entries in this file:
.BI \- name
means to disallow any subsequent entries (if any) for
.IR name
(in this file or in the 
.SM NIS
service);
.BI \-@ netgroup
means to disallow any subsequent entries
for all members of the network group
.IR netgroup .
.LP
The password file is an
.SM ASCII
file that resides in the
.B /etc
directory.  Because the encrypted
passwords on a secure system are kept in the
.B passwd.adjunct
file,
.B /etc/passwd
has general read permission on all systems,
and can be used by
routines that map numerical user
.SM ID\s0s
to names.
.LP
Appropriate precautions must be taken to lock the
.B /etc/passwd
file against simultaneous changes if it
is to be edited with a text editor;
.BR vipw (8)
does the necessary locking.
.br
.ne 8
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Here is a sample
.B passwd
file when
.B passwd.adjunct
does not exist:
.RS
.LP
.ft B
.nf
root:q.mJzTnu8icF.:0:10:God:/:/bin/csh
fred:6k/7KCFRPNVXg:508:10:% Fredericks:/usr2/fred:/bin/csh
+john:
+@documentation:no-login:
+::::Guest
.fi
.ft R
.LP
.RE
Here is a sample
.B passwd
file when
.B passwd.adjunct
does exist:
.RS
.LP
.ft B
.nf
root:##root:0:10:God:/:/bin/csh
fred:##fred:508:10:& Fredericks:/usr2/fred:/bin/csh
+john:
+@documentation:no-login:
+::::Guest
.fi
.ft R
.LP
.RE
In this example, there are specific entries for users
.B root
and
.BR fred ,
to assure that they can log in even when
the system is running standalone.  The user
.B john
will have his password entry in the 
.SM NIS
service incorporated without change; anyone in the netgroup
.B documentation
will have their password field disabled,
and anyone else will be able to log in with
their usual password,
shell, and home directory, but with a
gcos-field of
.BR Guest .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/passwd
.TP
.B /etc/security/passwd.adjunct
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR login (1),
.BR mail (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR crypt (3),
.BR getpwent (3V),
.BR group (5),
.BR passwd.adjunct (5),
.BR adduser (8),
.BR sendmail (8),
.BR vipw (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.BR mail (1)
and
.BR sendmail (8)
use the
gcos-field to compose the
.B From:
line for addressing mail messages, but these programs get
confused by nested parentheses when composing replies.
This problem can be avoided by using different
types of brackets within the
gcos-field; for example:
.RS
.B
(& Fredricks [Podunk U <\s-1EE/CIS\s0>] {818}-555-5555)
.RE
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
