.\" @(#)passwd.adjunct.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH PASSWD.ADJUNCT 5 "14 December 1987"
.SH NAME
passwd.adjunct \- user security data file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/security/passwd.adjunct
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "passwd.adjunct file"  ""  "\fLpasswd.adjunct\fP \(em password file"
.LP
The
.B passwd.adjunct
file contains the following information for each user:
.IP
.IB name : password : min-label :\c
.IB max-label : default-label : always-audit-flags :\c
.IB never-audit-flags :
.TP 20
.I name
The user's login name in the system and it must be unique.
.TP
.I password
The encrypted password.
.TP
.I min-label
The lowest security level at which this
user is allowed to login
(not used at C2 level).
.TP
.I max-label
The highest security level at which this
user is allowed to login
(not used at C2 level).
.TP
.I default-label
The security level at which this user will
run unless a label is specified at login.
.TP
.I always-audit-flags
Flags specifying events always to be audited
for this user's processes; see
.BR audit_control (5).
.TP
.I never-audit-flags
Flags specifying events never to be audited
for this user's processes; see
.BR audit_control (5).
.LP
Field are separated by a colon, and
each user from the next by a
.SM NEWLINE\s0.
.LP
The
.B passwd.adjunct
file can also have line beginning with a
.RB ` + '
(plus sign), which means to incorporate
entries from the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0).
There are three styles of
.RB ` + '
entries: all by itself,
.RB ` + '
means to insert the entire contents
of the 
.SM NIS
.B passwd.adjunct
file at that point;
.BI + name
means to insert the entry (if any) for
.I name
from the 
.SM NIS
service at that point;
.BI +@ name
means to insert the entries for all
members of the network group
.I name
at that point.  If a
.RB ` + '
entry has a non-null
password, it will override what is contained
in the 
.SM NIS
service.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Here is a sample
.B /etc/security/passwd.adjunct
file:
.RS
.LP
.ft B
.nf
root:q.mJzTnu8icF.::::::
ignatz:7KsI8C\s-1FRPNVX\s0g::b,ap,bp,gp,dp,ic,r,d,l::+dc,+da:-dr:
rex:7\s-1HU\s08\s-1UUGRPNVX\s0g:b,ap:b,ap,bp:b,bp::+ad:
+fred:9x.\s-1FFU\s0w6xcJBa::::::
+:
.fi
.ft R
.LP
.RE
The user
.B root
is the super-user, who has no special label
constraints nor audit interest.  The user
.B ignatz
may have any label from the lowest to the level
.B b
and any of a large number of categories.
.B ignatz
will run at system low unless he specifies otherwise.
He is being audited on the system default event
classes as well as data creations and access
changes, but never for failed data reads.
The user
.B rex
can function only at the level
.B b
and only in the categories
.B ap
or
.B ap
and
.BR bp .
By default, he will run at
.RB ` b , bp '.
He is audited with the system defaults,
except that successful administrative
operations are not audited.  The user
.B fred
will have the labels and audit flags that are specified
in the 
.SM NIS
.B passwd.adjunct
file.
Any other users specified in the
.SM NIS
service will be able to log in on this system.
.LP
The user security data file resides in the
.B /etc/security
directory.
Because it contains encrypted passwords,
it does not have general read permission.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/security/passwd.adjunct
.TP
.B /etc/security
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR login (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR crypt (3),
.BR getpwaent (3),
.BR getpwent (3V),
.BR audit_control (5),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR adduser (8)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
