.\" @(#)plot.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH PLOT 5 "19 October 1987"
.SH NAME
plot \- graphics interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "plot file"  ""  "\fLplot\fP \(em graphics interface files"
.IX  "graphics interface files"  ""  "graphics interface files \(em \fLplot\fP"
.LP
Files of this format are produced by routines
described in
.BR plot (3X),
and are interpreted for various devices
by commands described in
.BR plot (1G).
A graphics file is a stream of plotting instructions.
Each instruction consists of an
.SM ASCII
letter
usually followed by bytes of binary information.
The instructions are executed in order.
A point is designated by
four bytes representing the
.I x
and
.I y
values; each value is a signed integer.
The last designated point in an
.IR l ", " m ", " n ,
or
.I p
instruction becomes the ``current point''
for the next instruction.
.LP
Each of the following descriptions begins with the name
of the corresponding routine in
.BR plot (3X).
.TP
.B  m
Move: the next four bytes give a new current point.
.TP 3
.B  n
Cont: draw a line from the current point to
the point given by the next four bytes.
See
.BR plot (1G).
.TP 3
.B p
Point: plot the point given by the next four bytes.
.TP 3
.B l
Line: draw a line from the point given by the next
four bytes to the point given by the
following four bytes.
.TP 3
.B t
Label: place the following
.SM ASCII
string so that its
first character falls on the current point.
The string is terminated by a
.SM NEWLINE\s0.
.TP 3
.B a
Arc: the first four bytes give the center,
the next four give the starting point,
and the last four give the end point of a circular arc.
The least significant coordinate of the end point is
used only to determine the quadrant.
The arc is drawn counter-clockwise.
.TP 3
.B c
Circle: the first four bytes give the
center of the circle, the next two the radius.
.TP 3
.B e
Erase: start another frame of output.
.TP 3
.B f
Linemod: take the following string, up to a
.SM NEWLINE\s0,
as the style for drawing further lines.
The styles are ``dotted,''
``solid,'' ``longdashed,'' ``shortdashed,'' and ``dotdashed.''
Effective only in
.B plot 4014
and
.BR "plot ver" .
.TP 3
.B s
Space: the next four bytes give
the lower left corner of the plotting area;
the following four give the upper right corner.
The plot will be magnified or reduced to fit
the device as closely as possible.
.IP
Space settings that exactly fill the plotting area
with unity scaling appear below for
devices supported by the filters of
.BR plot (1G).
The upper limit is just outside the plotting area.
In every case the plotting area is taken to be square;
points outside may be displayable on
devices whose face is not square.
.RS
.TP 10n
.B 4014
.B space(0, 0, 3120, 3120);
.TP
.B ver
.B space(0, 0, 2048, 2048);
.TP
.BR 300 , " 300s"
.B space(0, 0, 4096, 4096);
.TP
.B 450
.B space(0, 0, 4096, 4096);
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR graph (1G),
.BR plot (1G),
.BR plot (3X)
