.\" @(#)pnp.sysnames.5	1.1
.TH PNP.SYSNAMES 5 "25 September 1989"
.SH NAME
pnp.sysnames \- file used to allocate system names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/pnp.sysnames
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "pnp.sysnames file"  ""  "\fLfstab\fP \(em system name allocation file"
.LP
The
.B /etc/pnp.sysnames
file contains system names that may be allocated on demand,
typically as part of Automatic System Installation.
.LP
The system names should be legal system names,
one per line.
Legal names are up to 31 characters long,
and consist of lowercase alphanumeric characters, dashes,
and underscores.
The first character must be alphabetic, and the last
character should be alphanumeric.
Blank lines are allowed in the file, but comments
are not.
.LP
When a system name needs to be allocated, the first
unused system name is taken from
.BR /etc/pnp.sysnames .
If all the system names there are in use,
unused names are allocated from the list
.IR system-1 ,
.IR system-2 ", .\|.\|.\|;"
the default prefix 
.I system
may be changed in the
.B /var/yp/updaters
makefile.
A system name is \*(lqused\*(rq if there is already a
matching entry in the
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
.I hosts.byname
map, the
.I ethers.byname
map, or there is a netgroup with that name.
Names are allocated to correspond to a given Ethernet
address.
There is no concept of \*(lqtransient\*(rq name allocation;
part of allocating a system name includes updating the
.I ethers.byname
and
.I ethers.byaddr
.SM NIS
maps to persistently associate the name with that
Ethernet address.
.LP
One way to allocate a system name is to issue a
.BR ypupdate (3N)
call to update the
.I ethers.byaddr
map.
The key is the Ethernet address (or general
.SM IEEE
802.2 48 bit address,
used also with
.SM FDDI
and Token Ring standards) of the system
whose name is being allocated.
The data is a line formatted according to the format specified in
.BR ethers (5).
A name is allocated if the name passed is
.RB ` * '
(a single asterisk).
Updating this
.SM NIS
map using
.BR ypupdate (3N)
is a privileged operation, and may be performed only by
users in the
.I networks
group (with group
.SM ID
12), or boot servers (listed in the
.I ypservers
.SM NIS
map).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/pnp.sysnames
.TP 20
.B /usr/etc/yp/upd.systems
.TP 20
.B /var/yp/updaters
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ypupdate (3N),
.BR ethers (5),
.BR group (5),
.BR hosts (5),
.BR netgroup (5),
.BR updaters (5),
.BR pnpd (8C)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
