'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)printcap.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.TH PRINTCAP 5 "24 February 1988"
.SH NAME
printcap \- printer capability data base
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/printcap
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "printcap file"  ""  "\fLprintcap\fP \(em printer capability data base"
.LP
.B printcap
is a simplified version of the
.BR termcap (5)
data base for describing printers.
The spooling system accesses the
.B printcap
file every time it is used, allowing dynamic
addition and deletion of printers.
Each entry in the data base describes one printer.
This data base may not be substituted for, as is possible for
.BR termcap ,
because it may allow accounting to be bypassed.
.LP
The default printer is normally
.BR lp ,
though the environment variable
.SM PRINTER
may be used to override this.
Each spooling utility supports a
.BI \-P printer
option to explicitly name a destination printer.
.LP
Refer to
.TX ADMIN
for a discussion of how to set up the
database for a given printer.
.\" Sun386i
On Sun386i systems, refer to 
.BR snap (1)
for information on setting up printers with the system
and network administration program. 
.LP
Each entry in the
.B printcap
file describes a printer, and is a line
consisting of a number of fields separated by
.RB ` : '
characters.
The first entry for each printer
gives the names which are known for the
printer, separated by
.RB ` | '
characters.
The first name is conventionally a number. 
The second name given is the most common abbreviation
for the printer, and the last name given should
be a long name fully identifying the printer.
The second name should contain no blanks;
the last name may well contain blanks for readability.
Entries may continue onto multiple lines by giving a
.RB ` \e '
as the last character of a line, and empty fields
may be included for readability.
.LP
Capabilities in
.B printcap
are all introduced by two-character codes,
and are of three types:
.LP
.TP 10
.I Boolean
Capabilities that indicate that the printer
has some particular feature.
Boolean capabilities are simply written between the
.RB ` : '
characters, and
are indicated by the word `bool' in the
.B type
column of the capabilities table below.
.TP
.I Numeric
Capabilities that supply information such
as baud-rates, number of lines per page, and so on.
Numeric capabilities are indicated by the word
.B num
in the
.B type
column of the capabilities table below.
Numeric capabilities are given by the
two-character capability code followed by the
.RB ` # '
character, followed by the numeric value.
The following example is a numeric
entry stating that this printer should
run at 1200 baud:
.IP
.B 	\ :br#1200:\ 
.TP
.I String
Capabilities that give a sequence which can
be used to perform particular
printer operations such as cursor motion.
String valued capabilities
are indicated by the word
.B str
in the
.B type
column of the capabilities table below.
String valued capabilities
are given by the two-character
capability code followed by an
.RB ` = '
sign and then a string ending at the next following
.RB ` : '.
For example,
.IP
.B 	\ \ :rp=spinwriter:\ 
.IP
is a sample entry stating that the remote printer
is named
.BR spinwriter .
.SH Sun386i DESCRIPTION
.LP
On Sun386i systems,
.BR lpr (1)
and related printing commands use the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
to obtain the 
.B printcap
entry for a named printer if the entry does not exist in the local
.B /etc/printcap
file.
For example, when a user issues the command:
.IP
.B 	\ \ lpr -Pnewprinter foo\ 
.LP
.B lpr 
searches 
.B /etc/printcap
on the local system for an entry for
.BR newprinter .
If no local entry for 
.B newprinter
exists, then 
.B lpr 
searches the 
.SM NIS
map called
.BR printcap .
The search is invisible to the user. 
.LP
.B lpr
creates the spooling directory for the printer automatically if 
no spooling directory exists.
.LP
System administrators can make a printer available to the 
entire 
.SM NIS
domain by placing an entry
for that printer in the 
.SM NIS
.B printcap 
map, typically using
.BR snap .
Otherwise, the system administrator must edit the 
.B /etc/printcap
file on the 
.SM NIS
master and then rebuild the 
.SM NIS
map. 
.SH CAPABILITIES
.LP
.\" === troff version ====
.if n .ig IG
.TS
c c l l
cfB l l l .
\fIName	Type	Default	Description\fP
.sp .5
af	str	\s-1NULL\s0	name of accounting file
br	num	none	if lp is a tty, set the baud rate (ioctl call)
cf	str	\s-1NULL\s0	cifplot data filter
df	str	\s-1NULL\s0	TeX data filter (\s-1DVI\s0 format)
du	str	0	User \s-1ID\s0 of user `daemon'.
fc	num	0	if lp is a tty, clear flag bits
ff	str	``\ef''	string to send for a form feed
fo	bool	false	print a form feed when device is opened
fs	num	0	like `fc' but set bits
gf	str	\s-1NULL\s0	graph data filter (plot(3X) format)
hl	bool	false	print the burst header page last
ic	bool	false	driver supports (non standard) ioctl to indent printout
if	str	\s-1NULL\s0	name of input/communication filter (created per job)
lf	str	``/dev/console''	error logging file name
lo	str	``lock''	name of lock file
lp	str	``/dev/lp''	device name to open for output
mc	num	0	maximum number of copies
ms	str	\s-1NULL\s0	list of terminal modes to set or clear
mx	num	1000	maximum file size (in \s-1BUFSIZ\s0 blocks), zero = unlimited
nd	str	\s-1NULL\s0	next directory for list of queues (unimplemented)
nf	str	\s-1NULL\s0	ditroff data filter (device independent troff)
of	str	\s-1NULL\s0	name of output/banner filter (created once)
pc	num	200	price per foot or page in hundredths of cents
pl	num	66	page length (in lines)
pw	num	132	page width (in characters)
px	num	0	page width in pixels (horizontal)
py	num	0	page length in pixels (vertical)
rf	str	\s-1NULL\s0	filter for printing \s-1FORTRAN\s0 style text files
rg	str	\s-1NULL\s0	restricted group. Only members of group allowed access
rm	str	\s-1NULL\s0	machine name for remote printer
rp	str	``lp''	remote printer name argument
rs	bool	false	restrict remote users to those with local accounts
rw	bool	false	open printer device read/write instead of write-only
sb	bool	false	short banner (one line only)
sc	bool	false	suppress multiple copies
sd	str	``/var/spool/lpd''	spool directory
sf	bool	false	suppress form feeds
sh	bool	false	suppress printing of burst page header
st	str	``status''	status file name
tc	str	\s-1NULL\s0	name of similar printer; must be last	 
tf	str	\s-1NULL\s0	troff data filter (C/A/T phototypesetter)
tr	str	\s-1NULL\s0	trailer string to print when queue empties
vf	str	\s-1NULL\s0	raster image filter
xc	num	0	if lp is a tty, clear local mode bits
xs	num	0	like `xc' but set bits
.TE
.IG
.\" === end troff version ====
.\" === nroff version ====
.if t .ig IG
.ta +5n +5n +19n +25n 
\fIName	Type	Default	Description\fP
.sp .5
af	str	\s-1NULL\s0	name of accounting file
br	num	none	if lp is a tty, set the baud 
			rate (ioctl call)
cf	str	\s-1NULL\s0	cifplot data filter
df	str	\s-1NULL\s0	TeX data filter (\s-1DVI\s0 format)
du	str	0	User \s-1ID\s0 of user `daemon'.
fc	num	0	if lp is a tty, clear 
			flag bits
ff	str	``\ef''	string to send for a 
			form feed
fo	bool	false	print a form feed when 
			device is opened
fs	num	0	like `fc' but set bits
gf	str	\s-1NULL\s0	graph data filter 
			(plot(3X) format)
hl	bool	false	print the burst header 
			page last
ic	bool	false	driver supports (non 
			standard) ioctl to indent 
			printout
if	str	\s-1NULL\s0	name of input/
			communication filter 
			(created per job)
lf	str	``/dev/console''	error logging file name
lo	str	``lock''	name of lock file
lp	str	``/dev/lp''	device name to open 
			for output
mc	num	0	maximum number of copies
ms	str	\s-1NULL\s0	list of terminal modes to 
			set or clear
mx	num	1000	maximum file size (in 
			\s-1BUFSIZ\s0 blocks), 
			zero = unlimited
nd	str	\s-1NULL\s0	next directory for list 
			of queues (unimplemented)
nf	str	\s-1NULL\s0	ditroff data filter 
			(device independent troff)
of	str	\s-1NULL\s0	name of output/banner 
			filter (created once)
pc	num	200	price per foot or page in 
			hundredths of cents
pl	num	66	page length (in lines)
pw	num	132	page width (in characters)
px	num	0	page width in pixels 
			(horizontal)
py	num	0	page length in pixels 
			(vertical)
rf	str	\s-1NULL\s0	filter for printing \s-1FORTRAN\s0 
			style text files
rg	str	\s-1NULL\s0	restricted group. Only 
			members of group allowed access
rm	str	\s-1NULL\s0	machine name for remote 
			printer
rp	str	``lp''	remote printer name argument
rs	bool	false	restrict remote users to 
			those with local accounts
rw	bool	false	open printer device read
			/write instead of write-only
sb	bool	false	short banner (one line only)
sc	bool	false	suppress multiple copies
sd	str	``/var/spool/lpd''	spool directory
sf	bool	false	suppress form feeds
sh	bool	false	suppress printing of burst 
			page header
st	str	``status''	status file name
tc	str	\s-1NULL\s0	name of similar printer; 
			must be last	 
tf	str	\s-1NULL\s0	troff data filter (C/A/T 
			phototypesetter)
tr	str	\s-1NULL\s0	trailer string to print 
			when queue empties
vf	str	\s-1NULL\s0	raster image filter
xc	num	0	if lp is a tty, clear 
			local mode bits
xs	num	0	like `xc' but set bits
.fi
.DT
.IG
.\" === end nroff version ===
.LP
If the local line printer driver supports
indentation, the daemon must understand how to invoke it.
.LP
Note: the
.BR fs ,
.BR fc ,
.BR xs ,
and
.B xc
fields are flag
.I masks
rather than flag
.IR values .
Certain default device flags are set when the device is
opened by the line printer daemon if the device is connected to a
terminal port.
The flags indicated in the
.B fc
field are then cleared;
the flags in the
.B fs
field are then set (or vice-versa,
depending on the order of
.BI fc #nnnn
and
.BI fs #nnnn
in the
.B /etc/printcap
file).  The bits cleared by the
.B fc
field and set by the
.B fs
field are those in the
.B sg_flags
field of the
.B sgtty
structure, as set by the
.SB TIOCSETP
.B ioctl
call, and the bits cleared by the
.B xc
field and set by the
.B xs
field are those in the \*(lqlocal flags\*(rq word, as set by the
.SB TIOCLSET
.B ioctl
call.  See
.BR ttcompat (4M)
for a description of these flags.
For example, to set exactly the flags
06300 in the
.B fs
field, which specifies that the
.SM
.BR EVENP \*S,
.SM
.BR ODDP \*S,
and
.SB XTABS
modes are to be set, and all other flags are to be cleared, do:
.RS
.nf
.B :fc#0177777:fs#06300:
.fi
.RE
.LP
The same process applies to the
.B xc
and
.B xs
fields.  Alternatively, the
.B ms
field can be used to specify modes to be set and cleared.
These modes are specified as
.BR stty (1V)
modes; any mode supported by
.B stty
may be specified, except for the baud rate which must be specified
with the
.B br
field.  This permits modes not supported by the older
terminal interface described in
.BR ttcompat (4M)
to be set or cleared. 
Thus, to set the terminal port to which the
printer is attached to even parity,
.SM TAB
expansion, no
.SM NEWLINE
to
.SM RETURN/LINEFEED
translation, and
.SM RTS/CTS
flow control enabled, do:
.RS
.nf
.B :ms=evenp,-tabs,nl,crtscts:
.fi
.RE
.\"Sun386i
.LP
On Sun386i systems, the 
.B tc
field, as in the
.BR termcap (5)
file, must appear last in the list of capabilities.
It is recommended that
each type of printer have a general entry describing common capabilities;
then an individual printer can be defined with 
its particular capabilities plus a
.B tc
field that points to the general entry for that type of printer.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/printcap
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lpq (1),
.BR lpr (1),
.BR lprm (1),
.BR plot (1G),
.BR snap (1),
.BR stty (1V),
.BR plot (3X),
.BR ttcompat (4M),
.BR termcap (5),
.BR lpc (8),
.BR lpd (8),
.BR pac (8)
.LP
.TX ADMIN
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
