.\" @(#)queuedefs.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH QUEUEDEFS 5 "22 January 1988"
.SH NAME
queuedefs \- queue description file for at, batch, and cron
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B /var/spool/cron/queuedefs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "queuedefs file" "" "\fLqueuedefs\fP file"
.LP
The
.B queuedefs
file describes the characteristics of the queues managed by
.BR cron (8).
Each non-comment line in this file describes one queue.
The format of the lines are as follows:
.RS
.LP
\fIq\fB.\fR[\fInjob\fBj\fR][\fInice\fBn\fR][\fInwait\fBw\fR]
.RE
.LP
The fields in this line are:
.TP
.I q
The name of the queue.
.B a
is the default queue for jobs started by
.BR at (1);
.B b
is the default queue for jobs started by
.B batch
(see
.BR at (1));
.B c
is the default queue for jobs run from a
.BR crontab (5)
file.
.TP
.I njob
The maximum number of jobs that can be run simultaneously in that queue; if
more than
.I njob
jobs are ready to run, only the first
.I njob
jobs will be run, and the others will be run as jobs that are currently running
terminate.  The default value is 100.
.TP
.I nice
The
.BR nice (1)
value to give to all jobs in that queue that are not run with a user
.SM ID
of super-user.  The default value is 2.
.TP
.I nwait
The number of seconds to wait before rescheduling a job that was deferred
because more than
.I njob
jobs were running in that job's queue, or because more than 25 jobs were
running in all the queues.  The default value is 60.
.LP
Lines beginning with
.B #
are comments, and are ignored.
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.nf
.ft B
#
# @(#)queuedefs.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
#
a.4j1n
b.2j2n90w
.RE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
This file specifies that the
.B a
queue, for
.B at
jobs, can have up to 4 jobs running simultaneously; those jobs will be run with
a
.B nice
value of 1.  As no
.I nwait
value was given, if a job cannot be run because too many other jobs are running
.B cron
will wait 60 seconds before trying again to run it.
The
.B b
queue, for
.B batch
jobs, can have up to 2 jobs running simultaneously; those jobs will be run with
a
.B nice
value of 2.  If a job cannot be run because too many other jobs are running,
.B cron
will wait 90 seconds before trying again to run it.
All other queues can have up to 100 jobs running simultaneously; they will be
run with a
.B nice
value of 2, and if a job cannot be run because too many other jobs are running
.B cron
will wait 60 seconds before trying again to run it.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/spool/cron/queuedefs
.PD 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR at (1),
.BR nice (1),
.BR crontab (5),
.BR cron (8)
