.\" @(#)remote.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH REMOTE 5 "19 October 1988"
.SH NAME
remote \- remote host description file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/remote
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "remote file"  ""  "\fLremote\fP \(em remote host descriptions"
.LP
The systems known by
.BR tip (1C)
and their attributes are stored in an
.SM ASCII
file which is structured somewhat like the
.BR termcap (5)
file.  Each line in the file provides
a description for a single
.IR system .
Fields are separated by a colon
.RB ` : '.
Lines ending in a
.RB ` \e '
character with an immediately following
.SM NEWLINE
are continued on the next line.
.LP
The first entry is the name(s) of the host system.
If there is more than one name for a system,
the names are separated by vertical bars.
After the name of the system comes the fields
of the description.  A field name followed by an
.RB ` = '
sign indicates a string value follows.  A field
name followed by a
.RB ` # '
sign indicates a following numeric value.
.LP
Entries named
.BI tip baudrate
are used as default entries by
.BR tip ,
as follows.  When
.B tip
is invoked with only a phone number,
it looks for an entry of the form
.BI tip baudrate\fR ,
where
.I baudrate
is the baud rate with
which the connection is to be made.  For example, if the connection is to be
made at 300 baud,
.B tip
looks for an entry of the form
.BR tip300 .
.SH CAPABILITIES
.LP
Capabilities are either strings
.BR (str) ,
numbers
.BR (num) ,
or boolean flags
.BR (bool) .
A string capability is specified by
.IR capability = value ;
for example,
.RB ` dv=/dev/harris '.
A numeric capability is specified by
.IR capability # value ;
for example,
.RB ` xa#99 '.
A boolean capability is specified by simply listing
the capability.
.TP
.B at
.B (str)
Auto call unit type.
The following lists valid
.RB ' at '
types and their corresponding hardware:
.RS
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B biz31f
Bizcomp 1031, tone dialing
.TP
.B biz31w
Bizcomp 1031, pulse dialing
.TP
.B biz22f
Bizcomp 1022, tone dialing
.TP
.B biz22w
Bizcomp 1022, pulse dialing
.TP
.B df02
DEC DF02
.TP
.B df03
DEC DF03
.TP
.B ventel
Ventel 212+
.TP
.B v3451
Vadic 3451 Modem
.TP
.B v831
Vadic 831
.TP
.B hayes
Any Hayes-compatible modem
.TP 
.B at
Any Hayes-compatible modem
.PD
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B br
.B (num)
The baud rate used in establishing a
connection to the remote host.
This is a decimal number.
The default baud rate is 300 baud.
.TP
.B cm
.B (str)
An initial connection message to be sent to the remote host.
For example, if a host is reached through a port selector,
this might be set to the
appropriate sequence required to switch to the host.
.TP
.B cu
.B (str)
Call unit if making a phone call.
Default
is the same as the
.B dv
field.
.TP
.B di
.B (str)
Disconnect message sent to the host
when a disconnect is requested by the user.
.TP
.B du
.B (bool)
This host is on a dial-up line.
.TP
.B dv
.B (str)
Device(s) to open to establish a connection.
If this file refers to a terminal line,
.B tip
attempts to perform an exclusive open
on the device to insure only
one user at a time has access to the port.
.TP
.B ec
.B (bool)
Initialize the
.B tip
variable
.B echocheck
to
.IR on ,
so that
.B tip
will synchronize with the remote host during file transfer by
waiting for the echo of the last character transmitted.
.TP
.B el
.B (str)
Characters marking an end-of-line.  The default is no characters.
.B tip
only recognizes
.RB ` \s+2~\s0 '
escapes after one of the characters in
.BR el ,
or after a
.SM RETURN\s0.
.TP
.B es
.B (str)
The command prefix (escape) character for
.BR tip .
.TP
.B et
.B (num)
Number of seconds to wait for an echo response when echo-check mode
is on.  This is a decimal number.  The default value is 10 seconds.
.TP
.B ex
.B (str)
Set of non-printable characters not to be discarded when scripting
with beautification turned on.  The default value is
\*(lq\et\en\eb\ef\*(rq.
.TP
.B fo
.B (str)
Character used to force literal data transmission.  The default value
is `\e377'.
.TP
.B fs
.B (num)
Frame size for transfers.
The default frame size is equal to 1024.
.TP
.B hd
.B (bool)
Initialize the
.B tip
variable
.B halfduplex
to
.IR on ,
so local echo should be performed.
.TP
.B hf
.B (bool)
Initialize the
.B tip
variable
.B hardwareflow
to
.IR on ,
so hardware flow control is used.
.TP
.B ie
.B (str)
Input end-of-file marks.  The default is a null string ("").
.TP
.B nb
.B (bool)
Initialize the
.B tip
variable
.B beautify
to
.IR off ,
so that unprintable characters will not be discarded when scripting.
.TP
.B nt
.B (bool)
Initialize the
.B tip
variable
.B tandem
to
.IR off ,
so that XON/XOFF flow control will not be used to throttle
data from the remote host.
.TP
.B nv
.B (bool)
Initialize the
.B tip
variable
.B verbose
to
.IR off ,
so that verbose mode will be turned on.
.TP
.B oe
.B (str)
Output end-of-file string.  The default is a null string ("").  When 
.B tip
is transferring a file, this string is sent at end-of-file.
.TP
.B pa
.B (str)
The type of parity to use when sending
data to the host.  This may be one
of
.BR even ,
.BR odd ,
.BR none ,
.B zero
(always set bit 8 to zero),
.B one
(always set bit 8 to 1).  The default is
.BR none .
.TP
.B pn
.B (str)
Telephone number(s) for this host.
If the telephone number field contains an
.RB ` @ '
sign,
.B tip
searches the
.B /etc/phones
file for a list of telephone numbers \(em see
.BR phones (5).
A
.RB ` % '
sign in the telephone number indicates a
5-second delay for the Ventel Modem.
.TP
.B pr
.B (str)
Character that indicates end-of-line on the remote host.  The default
value is `\en'.
.TP
.B ra
.B (bool)
Initialize the
.B tip
variable
.B raise
to
.IR on ,
so that lower case letters are mapped to upper case
before sending them to the remote host.
.TP
.B rc
.B (str)
Character that toggles case-mapping mode.  The default value is `\e377'.
.TP
.B re
.B (str)
The file in which to record session scripts.  The default value is
.BR tip.record .
.TP
.B rw
.B (bool)
Initialize the
.B tip
variable
.B rawftp
to
.IR on ,
so that all characters will be sent as is during file transfers.
.TP
.B sc
.B (bool)
Initialize the
.B tip
variable
.B script
to
.IR on ,
so that everything transmitted by the remote host will be recorded.
.TP
.B tb
.B (bool)
Initialize the
.B tip
variable
.B tabexpand
to
.IR on ,
so that tabs will be expanded to spaces during file transfers.
.TP
.B tc
.B (str)
Indicates that the list of capabilities is continued
in the named description.  This is used
primarily to share common capability information.
.LP
Here is a short example showing the use
of the capability continuation feature:
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.ta 0.5i
\s-1UNIX\s0-1200:\e
	:dv=/dev/cua0:el=^D^U^C^S^Q^O@:du:at=ventel:ie=#$%:oe=^D:br#1200:
arpavax|ax:\e
	:pn=7654321%:tc=\s-1UNIX\s0-1200
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/remote
.TP
.B /etc/phones
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tip (1C),
.BR phones (5),
.BR termcap (5)
