.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)resolv.conf.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD
.\"
.TH RESOLV.CONF 5 "30 June 1989"
.SH NAME
resolv.conf \- configuration file for domain name system resolver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "resolv.conf file" "" "\fLresolv.conf\fR file \(em domain name resolver initialization info"
.LP
The resolver configuration file contains
information that is read
by the domain name system resolver library the first time
it is invoked in a process.
It is only necessary to create this file to specify
an explicit default domain name other than the default one derived
from the 
.BR domainname (1)
command, or to specify name servers to use on other machines.
The file is designed to be human readable
and contains a list of
keyword-value pairs that provide various types
of resolver information.
.IP
.I keyword	value
.LP
The different configuration options are:
.TP 20
.BI nameserver " address"
The Internet address (in dot
notation) of a name server
that the resolver should query.  
Up to
.SM MAXNS
(currently 3) name servers may be listed. In that
case the resolver library queries tries them
in the order listed.  The policy used is to
try a name server, and if the query times out,
try the next, until out of name servers, then
repeat trying all the name servers
until a maximum number of retries are made.
If there are no
.B nameserver
lines in this file, then the loopback address is used, so there
must be a name server running on the same machine.
.TP
.BI domain " name"
The default domain to append to names that do
not have a dot in them, and used in searches.  If there is no 
.B domain
line in this file, then it is derived from the domain set by the
.BR domainname (1)
command, usually by removing the first component.
For example, if the 
.BR domainname (1)
is set to ``foo.podunk.edu'' then the default
domain used by the resolver will be ``podunk.edu''.
The is the same policy used by 
.BR sendmail (8).
.LP
The keyword-value pair must appear on a single line,
and the keyword (for instance,
.BR nameserver )
must start the line.  The value follows
the keyword, separated by white space.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/resolv.conf
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR domainname (1),
.BR gethostent (3N),
.BR resolver (3),
.BR named (8C),
.BR nslookup (8C),
.SM RFC\s0 1034,
.SM RFC\s0 1035
.LP
.TX ADMIN
