.\" @(#)rfmaster.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5r3
.TH RFMASTER 5 "30 September 1988"
.SH NAME
rfmaster \- Remote File Sharing name server master file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/nserve/rfmaster
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "rfmaster" "" "\fLrfmaster\fR \(em RFS name server master file" ""
.IX RFS "name server master file" "\s-1RFS\s0" "name server master file"
.IX "master file, RFS name server" "" "master file, \s-1RFS\s0 name server" ""
.IX server "RFS name server master file" "server" "\s-1RFS\s0 name server master file"
.IX domain "primary and secondary domain name service"
The
.B rfmaster 
file is an 
.SM ASCII 
text file that identifies the hosts that
are responsible for providing primary and secondary domain name service
for Remote File Sharing domains.
This file contains a series
of entries, each terminated by a
.SM NEWLINE\s0;
a record may be extended over more than one line by escaping 
the
.SM NEWLINE
with a backslash.
Fields in each record are separated by white space.
Each record has three fields:
.IR name ", " type ", 
and 
.IR data .
.LP
The 
.I type 
field, which defines the meaning of the
.I name 
and
.I data
fields, has three possible values:
.TP 
.B p
Primary domain name server.
In this case,
.I name 
is the domain name and
.I data
is the full hostname of the primary name server, specified as:
.RS
.IP
.IB domain . nodename
.RE
.IP
There can be only one primary name server per domain.
.TP 
.B s
Define a secondary name server for a domain.
In this case,
.I name 
and
.I data 
are the same as for the
.B p
type.
The order of the
.B s 
entries in the
.B rfmaster 
file determines the
order in which secondary name servers take over 
when the current domain name server fails.
.TP 
.B a
Define a network address for a machine.
In this case,
.I name 
is the full domain name for the machine, and
.I data 
is the network address.
The network address can be in plain 
.SM ASCII 
text or it can be
preceded by a
.RB ` \ex '
to be interpreted as hexadecimal notation.
.LP
There are at least two lines in the
.B rfmaster 
file per domain name server:
one
.B p 
line and one
.B a 
line.  Together, they define the primary and its network address.
There should also be at least one secondary name server in each domain.
.LP
This file is created and maintained on the primary domain name server.
When a machine other than the primary tries to start Remote File Sharing,
this file is read to determine the address of the primary.  If
this file is missing, the
.B \-p 
option of
.B rfstart 
must be used to
identify the primary.  After that, a copy of the primary's
.B rfmaster
file is automatically placed on the machine.
.LP
Domains not served by the primary can also be listed in the
.B rfmaster
file.  By adding primary, secondary, and address information for other
domains on a network, machines served by the primary will be able to
share resources with machines in other domains.
.LP
A primary name server may be a primary for more than one domain.
However, the secondaries must then also be the same for each domain
served by the primary.
.br
.ne 5
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
An example of an
.B rfmaster 
file is shown below.
The network addresses given
in the example are
.SM IP
addresses; 
for more information on their format and how to generate them,
see 
.BR hostrfs (8).
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
	sunrfs		p	sunrfs.estale
	sunrfs		s	sunrfs.ivy
	sunrfs.estale	a	\ex000214508190320d
	sunrfs.ivy	a	\ex0002145081903246
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
Note:  If a line in the
.B rfmaster 
file begins with a
.RB ` # '
(pound sign) character,
the entire line will be treated as a comment.
.br
.ne 8
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.B /usr/nserve/rfmaster
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rfstart (8) 
.LP
.TX ADMIN
