.\" @(#)rootmenu.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH ROOTMENU 5 "31 January 1990"
.SH NAME
rootmenu \- root menu specification for SunView
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ~/.rootmenu
.br
.B /usr/lib/.rootmenu
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "rootmenu root" "" "\fLrootmenu\fP \(em root menu specification for SunView"
.IX "root" "menu specification for SunView"
.IX "specification" "root menu, for SunView"
.IX SunView "root menu specification for"
.LP
If a
.B .rootmenu
file is present in a user's home directory, it specifies the SunView menu,
the menu that appears when the user clicks and holds the right
mouse button in the background of the SunView desktop.  If a
.B .rootmenu
file is not present in the user's home directory,
.B /usr/lib/.rootmenu
specifies the SunView menu.
.LP
Each line of a
.B .rootmenu
file
has the format:
.LP
.RS
.TP 15
.I "menu item"
.I command
.RE
.LP
.I menu item
can be a character string, or an icon file delimited by angle brackets:
.LP
.RS
.BI < icon-filename >
.RE
.LP
If
.I menu item
is a character string with embedded spaces, it must be enclosed by
double quotes
(`\fB"\fP').
.LP
.I command
can be a command line to be executed when the menu item is selected,
or one of the following reserved-word commands:
.LP
.RS
.TP 15
.SB EXIT
Exit 
.BR sunview
(requires confirmation).
.TP
.SB REFRESH
Redraw the entire screen.
.TP
.SB MENU
This menu item is a pull-right item with a submenu.
If a full pathname follows the
.SB MENU
command, the submenu contents are taken from that file.
Otherwise, all the lines between a
.SB MENU
command and a matching
.SB END
command are added to the submenu.
.TP
.SB END
Mark the end of a nested submenu.
The left side of this line should match the left side of a line
with a
.SB MENU
command.
.RE
.LP
If
.I command
is not one of the reserved-word commands, it is treated as a command line,
although no shell interpretation is done.
.LP
Lines beginning with a
.RB ` # '
character are considered comments and are ignored.
.LP
If a user's
.B .rootmenu
file is modified, the SunView menu immediately reflects the changes.
.LP
See
.BR sunview (1)
for more details about
.BR .rootmenu .
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following is a sample
.B .rootmenu
file:
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#
#	sample root menu
#
"Lock Screen"		lockscreen
Tools     MENU
	Perfmeter		perfmeter
	Calculator		calc
	Mailtool		mailtool
Tools     END
"ShellTool"		shelltool
"CommandTool"	cmdtool
"Console"		cmdtool -C
#"MailTool"		mailtool
"TextEditor"		textedit
"DefaultsEditor"	defaultsedit
#"IconEditor"		iconedit
#"DbxTool"		dbxtool
"PerfMeter"		perfmeter
#"GraphicsTool"	gfxtool
"Redisplay All"		REFRESH
"Exit Suntools"		EXIT
.ft
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sunview (1)
