'\" t
.\" @(#)sccsfile.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH SCCSFILE 5 "30 June 1988"
.SH NAME
sccsfile \- format of an SCCS history file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "sccsfile file"  ""  "\fLsccsfile\fP \(em SCCS file format"
An
.SM SCCS
file is an
.SM ASCII
file
consisting of six logical parts:
.TP 10
checksum
character count used for error detection
.TP
delta table
log containing version info and statistics about each delta
.TP
usernames
login names and/or group
.SM ID\s0s
of users who may add deltas
.TP
flags
definitions of internal keywords
.TP
comments
arbitrary descriptive information about the file
.TP
body
the actual text lines intermixed with control lines
.LP
Each section is described in detail below.
.SS Conventions
Throughout an SCCS file there are lines which begin with the
.SM ASCII SOH
(start of heading) character (octal 001).
This character is hereafter referred to as the
.IR "control character" ,
and will be represented as `^A'.
If a line described below is not depicted as beginning with
the control character, it cannot do so and still be within
.SM SCCS
file format.
.LP
Entries of the form
.I ddddd
represent a five digit string (a number between 00000 and 99999).
.SS Checksum
The checksum is the first line of an
.SM SCCS
file.  The form of the line is:
.IP
^A \fBh\fIddddd\fR
.LP
The value of the checksum is the sum of all characters, except
those contained in the first line.  The
.RB ^A h
provides a
.I "magic number"
of (octal) 064001.
.SS "Delta Table"
The delta table consists of a variable number of entries of the form:
.RS
.nf
^A\fBs \fIinserted\|\fB/\fIdeleted\|\fB/\fIunchanged\fR
.if t ^A\fBd \fItype  sid  yr\|\fB/\fImo\|\fB/\fIda hr\|\fB:\fImi\|\fB:\fIse  username  serial-number  predecessor-sn
^A\fBi \fIinclude-list\fR
^A\fBx \fIexclude-list\fR
^A\fBg \fIignored-list\fR
^A\fBm \fImr-number\fR
\&.\|.\|.
^A\fBc \fIcomments\fR .\|.\|.
\&.\|.\|.
.RB ^A e
.fi
.RE
The first line
.RB (^A s )
contains the number of lines
inserted/deleted/unchanged respectively.
The second line
.RB (^A d )
contains the type of the delta
(normal:
.BR D ,
and removed:
.BR R ),
the SCCS
.SM ID
of the delta, the date and time of creation of the delta,
the user-name corresponding to the real user
.SM ID
at the time the delta was created,
and the serial numbers of the delta and its predecessor, respectively.
.sp
The
.RB ^A i ,
.RB ^A x ,
and
.RB ^A g
lines contain the serial numbers of deltas
included, excluded, and ignored, respectively. 
These lines do not always appear.
.LP
The
.RB ^A m
lines (optional) each contain one MR number associated with the delta;
the
.RB ^A c
lines contain comments associated with the delta.
.LP
The
.RB ^A e
line ends the delta table entry.
.br
.ne 6
.SS "User Names"
.LP
The list of user-names and/or numerical group
.SM ID\s0s
of users who may add deltas to the file, separated by
.SM NEWLINE
characters.
The lines containing these login names and/or numerical group
.SM ID\s0s
are surrounded by the bracketing lines
.RB ^A u
and
.RB ^A U .
An empty list allows anyone to make a delta.
.SS Flags
Flags are keywords that are used internally (see
.BR sccs-admin (1)
for more information on their use).  Each flag line takes the form:
.RS
.TP
.RB ^A f " \fIflag\fP"
.I "optional text"
.RE
.LP
The following flags are defined in order of appearance:
.HP
.RB ^A f " t"
.I "type-of-program"
.br
Defines the replacement for the
.BR %\&T%
ID keyword.
.HP
.RB ^A f " v"
.RI "program-name"
.br
Controls prompting for MR numbers in addition to comments;
if the optional text is present it defines an MR number validity
checking program.
.TP
.RB ^A f " i"
Indicates that the
.RB ` "No id keywords" '
message is to generate an error that terminates the
.SM SCCS
command.  Otherwise, the message is treated as a warning only.
.TP
.RB ^A f " b"
Indicates that the
.B \-b
option may be used with the
.SM SCCS
.B get
command to create a branch in the delta tree.
.HP
.RB ^A f " m"
.RI "module name"
.br
Defines the first choice for the replacement text of the
.B %\&M%
ID keyword.
.HP
.RB ^A f " f"
.I "floor"
.br
Defines the \*(lqfloor\*(rq release;
the release below which no deltas may be added.
.HP
.RB ^A f " c"
.I "ceiling"
.br
Defines the \*(lqceiling\*(rq release;
the release above which no deltas may be added.
.HP
.RB ^A f " d"
.I default-sid
.br
The
.B d
flag defines the default SID to be used when none is specified on an
.SM SCCS
.B get
command.
.TP
.RB ^A f " n"
The
.B n
flag enables the
.SM SCCS
.B delta
command to insert a \*(lqnull\*(rq delta (a delta that applies
.I no
changes) in those releases that are skipped when a delta is made in a
.I new
release (for example, when delta 5.1 is made after delta 2.7, releases 3 and
4 are skipped).
.TP
.RB ^A f " j"
Enables the
.SM SCCS
.B get
command to allow concurrent edits of the same base
.SM SID.
.HP
.RB ^A f " l"
.I "lock-releases"
.br
Defines a
.I list
of releases that are locked against editing.
.HP
.RB ^A f " q"
.RI "user defined"
.br
Defines the replacement for the
.B %\&Q%
ID keyword.
.HP
.RB ^A f " e"
.BR 0 | 1
.br
The 
.B e
flag indicates whether a source file is encoded or not.  A
.B 1
indicates that the file is encoded.  Source files need to be encoded
when they contain control characters, or when they do not end with a 
.SM NEWLINE\s0.
The
.B e
flag allows files that contain binary data to be checked in.
.SS Comments
Arbitrary text surrounded by the bracketing lines
.RB ^A t
and
.RB ^A T .
The comments section typically will contain a description of the file's purpose.
.SS Body
The body consists of text lines and control lines.
Text lines do not begin with the control character, control lines do.
There are three kinds of control lines:
.IR insert , \ delete ,
and
.IR end ,
represented by:
.br
.ne 6
.LP
.RS
.nf
.RB ^A I " \fIddddd\fP"
.RB ^A D " \fIddddd\fP"
.RB ^A E " \fIddddd\fP"
.fi
.RE
.LP
respectively.
The digit string is the serial number corresponding to the delta for the
control line.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-admin (1),
.BR sccs-cdc (1),
.BR sccs-comb (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-get (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR sccs-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs-sact (1),
.BR sccs-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs-unget (1),
.BR sccs-val (1),
.BR what (1)
