'\" t
.\" @(#)setup.pc.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SETUP.PC 5 "25 September 1989"
.SH NAME
setup.pc \- master configuration file for DOS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ~/pc/setup.pc
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "setup.pc" "" "\fLsetup.pc\fP \(em setup.pc master configuration file for DOS" ""
.LP
The
.B setup.pc
file in your home 
.SM PC
directory,
.BR ~/pc ,
is the master configuration file for 
.SM DOS\s0.
Changes to the file take effect for all new
.SM DOS 
windows you start.
The definitions made in
.B setup.pc
and
.SB AUTOEXEC.BAT
serve to define your system to
.SM DOS\s0. 
Among other things, the
.B setup.pc
file defines:
.LP
.RS
\(bu\0\0The printers or devices to which you assign 
.SM DOS\s0 printer names (\s-1LPT1\s0, 
.SM LPT2\s0, 
.SM LPT3\s0)
.LP
\(bu\0\0The devices or boards that are tied to the 
.SM DOS\s0
communications devices (\s-1COM1\s0, 
.SM COM2\s0)
.LP
\(bu\0\0The name of a special 
.SM DOS\s0
quick-start file that you may have set up
.LP
\(bu\0\0The drive C file to be used
.RE
.LP
The format of each line is as follows; separators can be
.SM TAB
or
.SM SPACE
characters:
.LP
.RS 1i
.I "\s-1DOS\s0 Device		SunOS Device or Command"
.RE
.TP
.I \s-1DOS\s0 Device
The name of the device as
.SM DOS
knows it.
For example, the device name for the first diskette drive in
.SM DOS
is \*(lqA\*(rq.
.TP
.I "SunOS Device or Command"
The name of the device as the SunOS
system knows it. 
This can also be a symbolic link to the real device name. 
For example,
.B /etc/dos/defaults/diskette_a
is a symbolic link to
.BR /dev/rfd0c .
For emulated
.SM DOS
printers (\s-1LPT1\s0, 
.SM LPT2\s0,
or 
.SM LPT3\s0),
specify a command or command pipeline.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.RS
.TS
lfB lfB .
# \s-1DOS\s0 Device	SunOS Device Path Name
#
\s-1A\s0	/etc/dos/defaults/diskette_a
#\s-1B\s0	/etc/dos/defaults/diskette_b
\s-1C\s0	~/pc/C:
\s-1COM1\s0	/etc/dos/defaults/com1
#\s-1COM2\s0	/etc/dos/defaults/com2
\s-1LPT1\s0	lpr
\s-1LPT2\s0	cat >>~/lpt-2
\s-1LPT3\s0	psfx80 | lpr
\s-1SAVE\s0	~/pc/.quickpc
#\s-1CMDTOOL\s0
#\s-1TEXT\s0
#\s-1BOARDS\s0
.TE
.ps
.RE
.TP
.B #
Placed at the beginning of a line to indicate a comment.
.TP
.B \s-1A, B\s0
Diskette drivers defined using the standard SunOS names for the
Sun386i diskette drives.
Drive
.B A
is normally assigned to the built-in
diskette drive.
.TP
.B C
The emulated C drive.
It is actually stored as one large system file.
.br
.ne 7v
.TP
.B \s-1COM1, COM2\s0
Serial ports.
The first
.SM DOS
serial port (\s-1COM1\s0) is assigned to the Sun386i built-in serial port.
To use the built-in serial port as
.SM COM2\s0,
comment out the
.SM COM1
line and uncomment the
.SM COM2
line. 
(\s-1DOS\s0
Windows directs the output of either
.SM COM1
or
.SM COM2
to the built-in port, but uses different interrupt levels so that
.SM COM2
\*(lqappears\*(rq to
.SM DOS
to be a second serial port.) 
You can also add a real second serial port by
installing an
.SM AT
or
.SM XT
card and enabling the SunOS
.SM ATS
driver.
.TP
.B \s-1LPT1, LPT2, LPT3\s0
Emulated printers.
.SM DOS
printer names can be assigned to SunOS printers, other devices, or files.
.TP
.B \s-1SAVE\s0
The \*(lqquick-start\*(rq file
.SM DOS
reads at startup for faster loading. 
.TP
.B \s-1CMDTOOL\s0
Used to list the SunOS commands that must run in a separate Commands window
when started from
.SM DOS. 
The following SunOS commands automatically run in a Commands 
window when you run them from DOS:
.RS 1.0i
.ft B
.sp .5
.nf
mail\ \ \ man\ \ \ more\ \ \ passwd\ \ \ rlogin\ \ \ stty\ \ \ vi
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.TP
\&
If there are other SunOS commands or applications you want to run 
from
.SM DOS\s0,
and these commands require keyboard entry or Commands window display,
list them here. 
If you add entries to this line, separate them with a
.SM SPACE
character, and be sure to remove the
.B #
(comment) symbol to activate the line.
.TP
.B \s-1TEXT\s0
Specifies a list of \*(lqtext-only\*(rq
.SM DOS
programs.
Such programs do not require a
.SM PC
window because they do not 
print at specific screen positions;
they can print text in a current 
Commands window if that is where you are working at the time. 
An example is a C compiler or a linker that runs from the
.SM DOS
command line.
If you place entries on this line, separate them with a
.SM SPACE
character, and be sure to remove the
.B #
symbol to activate the text-only line.
.TP
.B \s-1BOARDS\s0
A list of boards that
.SM DOS
should attempt to activate when opening a
.SM DOS
window.
Each board you list here must have a corresponding entry in the
.B boards.pc file
(see
.BR boards.pc (5)).
.LP
You can create task-specific
.SM DOS
environments by setting up additional
.B setup.pc
files to attach different printers, drive C files, and 
other real and emulated devices.
.LP
If you are installing a board that duplicates a function normally 
enabled in the
.B setup.pc
file, you should disable the corresponding
.B setup.pc
line by commenting it out with
.BR # .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B ~/pc/setup.pc
Personal
.B setup.pc
file, copied to the user's
.B pc
directory when
.SM DOS
is started for the first time.
.TP
.B /etc/dos/defaults/setup.pc
Master copy of
.B setup.pc
for the workstation.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dos (1),
.BR boards.pc (5)
.LP
.IR "Sun386i User's Guide" ,
.br
.IR "Sun386i Advanced Skills" ,
.br
.I Sun \s-1MS-DOS\s0 Reference Manual
