.\" @(#)svdtab.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new for 4.1
.TH SVDTAB 5 "26 January 1990"
.SH NAME
svdtab \- SunView device table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/svdtab
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "svdtab" "" "\fLsvdtab\fP \(em SunView device table" ""
.IX "SunView device table" "" "SunView device table \(em \fLsvdtab\fP" ""
.LP
The
.B /etc/svdtab
contains information that is used by 
the window system
(for example,
.BR sunview (1))
to change the owner, group, and permissions of the window devices 
.RB ( /dev/win* )
upon startup.
By default
.I all
lines in this file are commented out.
That is, all security is disabled.
To enable security, uncomment the following line in
.B /etc/svdtab
and start up the window system again:
.IP
.B #0600
.LP
If 
.B /etc/svdtab
contains an entry,
the owner and group of the
.B win
devices are set to the owner and group of the console.
The permissions are set as specified in
.BR /etc/svdtab .
The recommended permissions for normal security is
.BR 0600 .
.LP
Once the window devices are owned by the user, their
permissions and ownership can be changed using
.BR chmod (1V)
and
.BR chown (8),
as with any user-other file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following is an example entry of the
.B /etc/svdtab
file:
.IP
.B 0600
.LP
This entry specifies that upon SunView startup, the
owner, group and permissions of
.B /dev/win*
will be set to the user's username, the user's group and
.BR 0600 ,
respectively.
Upon exiting the window system, the owner and group of 
.BR /dev/win* ,
will be reset to 
.BR root ,
and
.BR wheel .
The permissions remain as set in
.BR /etc/svdtab .
If no entry appears in this file, the owner, group and
permissions will
.I not
be changed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chmod (1V),
.BR sunview (1),
.BR chown (8)
.SH NOTES
.LP
If the window system dies unnaturally, for example by
.BR kill (1),
the owner, group and permissions remain as set when the window
was started up.
