'\" t
.\" @(#)systems.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SYSTEMS 5 "25 September 1989"
.SH NAME
systems \- NIS systems file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/systems
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "systems" "\fLsystems\fP \(em NIS systems file" ""
.LP
The
.B /etc/systems
file is used only by
.SM SNAP
and Automatic System Installation, and contains basic information about each
host on the network.
It is an
.SM ASCII
file in the
.B /etc
directory on the
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
master server.
To successfully administer all systems in a 
.SM NIS
domain using
.SM SNAP\s0,
there must be an entry in this file for each host listed in the
.B /etc/hosts
file.
For each host, this file contains a one-line entry, of the following
form, where each field
.I must
be separated by a
.SM TAB
character:
.sp
.\" use .ft so following line prints " in line
.ft I
.if n .ti 0
.if t .ti 1i
system\ \ architecture\ \ sunos\ \ "hostid"\ \ memory_size\ \ disk_size\ \ network_role
.ft P
.TP
.I system
is the name of a host, whether it is on a network or
a standalone system.
This field contains only lowercase and numeric characters,
must start with a lower-case character,
and must not be longer than 32 characters.
.TP
.I architecture
indicates the architecture of the specified system.  
This can be
.BR s386 ,
.BR sun4 ,
.BR sun3 ,
.BR sun2 ,
.BR sun1 ,
.BR pcnfs ,
or
.BR other .
.TP
.I sunos
indicates the SunOS operating system version the system is running.
Typically, the form is
.BI sunos version_number
or
.BR \%unknown .  
.SM SNAP
always inserts
.B \%unknown
when adding new systems.
.TP
.I hostid
the system host 
.SM ID\s0,
as obtained from
.BR /bin/hostid .
This entry must be in quotes.
If the host
.SM ID
is
.BR \%unknown ,
an empty string (\fB"\|"\fR) is specified.
.SM SNAP
always inserts an empty string when adding new systems.
.TP
.I memory_size
amount of memory, in kilobytes.
This can be
.B 8000
(for 8 megabytes),
.B 4000
(for 4 megabytes), or
.B \-1
for
.BR \%unknown .
.SM SNAP
always inserts 
.B \-1
when adding new systems.
.TP
.I disk_size
amount of disk space, in kilobytes. 
This can be any value, but typically should be
close to the actual disk size or to the total amount
of disk space, if expansion disks were added. 
Diskless clients would have a zero value, while
.B \%unknown
disk sizes are specified by a
.B \-1
value.
.SM SNAP
always inserts
.B \-1 
when adding new network clients.
.TP
.I network_role
indicates the role the system plays on the network.
This can be
.BR master_bootserver ,
.BR slave_bootserver ,
.BR network_client ,
or
.BR diskless_client .
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Here is a sample systems file:
.sp
.if n .in 0
.TS
;
lfB lfB lfB lfB lfB lfB lfB .
vulcan	s386	sunos4.0.1	"12345678"	8000	327000	master_bootserver
polaris	s386	sunos4.0.1	""	8000	91000	slave_bootserver
star	sun4	sunos4.1	""	8000	91000	network_client
traveler	s386	sunos4.0.1	""	8000	0	diskless_client
.TE
.if n .in
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/systems
.TP
.B /etc/hosts
.TP
.B /bin/hostid
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR snap (1),
.BR vipw (8)
.LP
.TX ADMIN ,
.br
.I Sun386i Advanced Administration
.SH NOTES
.LP
Take precautions to lock the
.B /etc/systems
file against simultaneous changes if it will be edited
with a text editor;
editing with
.BR vipw (8)
provides the necessary locking.
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
The name Yellow Pages is a registered trademark in the United Kingdom
of British Telecommunications plc,
and may not be used without permission.
