.\" @(#)ttytab.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.TH TTYTAB 5 "19 October 1988"
.SH NAME
ttytab, ttys \- terminal initialization data
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "ttytab file" "" "\fLttytab\fP file"
.LP
The
.B /etc/ttytab
file contains information that is used by various routines to initialize
and control the use of terminal special files. This information is read
with the
.BR getttyent (3)
library routines.
There is one line in
.B /etc/ttytab
file per special file.
.LP
The
.B /etc/ttys
file should not be edited; it is derived from
.B /etc/ttytab
by
.BR init(8)
at boot time, and is only included for backward compatibility with
programs that may still require it.
.LP
Fields are separated by
.SM TAB
and/or
.SM SPACE
characters.  Some fields may contain more than
one word and should be enclosed in double quotes.
Blank lines and comments can appear anywhere in
the file; comments
are delimited by
.RB ` # '
and
.SM NEWLINE\s0.
Unspecified fields default to
.SM NULL\s0.
The first field is the terminal's entry in the device directory,
.BR /dev .
The second field of the file is the command
to execute for the line, typically
.BR getty (8),
which performs such tasks as baud-rate recognition, reading the login name,
and calling
.BR login (1).
It can be, however, any desired command, for example
the start up for a window system terminal emulator or some other
daemon process, and can contain multiple words if quoted.
The third field is the type of terminal normally connected to that
tty line, as found in the
.BR termcap (5)
data base file.
The remaining fields set flags in the
.B ty_status
entry (see
.BR getttyent (3))
or specify a window system process that
.BR init (8)
will maintain for the terminal line.
.LP
As flag values,
the strings
.B on
and
.B off
specify whether
.B init
should execute the command
given in the second field,
while
.B secure
in addition to
.B on
allows \*(lqroot\*(rq to login on this line.
If the console is not marked \*(lqsecure,\*(rq
the system prompts for
the root password before coming up in single-user mode.
.B local
in addition to
.B on
indicates that the line is a \*(lqlocal\*(rq line; the modem control signals for this
line, such as Carrier Detect, will be ignored.
These flag fields should not be quoted.
The string
.B window=
is followed by a quoted command
string which
.B init
will execute before starting
.BR getty .
.LP
The flag
.B local
applies to terminals, and enables the software carrier mode in the kernel; the
kernel ignores the state of carrier detect when opening the serial port.
Alternately, if this field is set to any value other than
.BR local ,
this flag disables the software carrier mode in the
kernel, 
so the state of the carrier detect is not ignored.
This usually applies to modems.
See
.BR termio (4).
.LP
If the line ends in a comment, the comment is included in the
.B ty_comment
field of the
.B ttyent
structure.
.LP
After changing the
.B /etc/ttytab
file,
you must notify
.BR init (8)
before those changes will take effect.
To do this, use:
.RS
.B kill  \-1  1
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Below is a sample
.B /etc/ttytab
file:
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.ta \w'console\ 'u +\w'"/usr/etc/getty std.9600"\ \ \ 'u +\w'hp2621-nl\ \ \ \ 'u +.7i
console	"/usr/etc/getty std.1200"	vt100	on secure
ttyd0	"/usr/etc/getty d1200"	dialup	on	# 555-1234
ttyh0	"/usr/etc/getty std.9600"	hp2621-nl	on	# 254\s-1MC\s0
ttyh1	"/usr/etc/getty std.9600"	plugboard	on	# John's office
ttyp0	none	network
ttyp1	none	network	off
ttyv0	"/usr/new/xterm \-L :0"	vs100	on window="/usr/new/Xvs100 0"
console "/usr/etc/getty \-n \-s    std.9600" sun          on      secure
console "/usr/etc/getty \-n \-s \-l std.9600" sun          on      secure
.ft R
.fi
.br
.ne 11
.LP
The first line permits \*(lqroot\*(rq login on the console
at 1200 baud, and indicates that the console is physically
secure for single-user operation.
The second line allows dialup at 1200 baud without \*(lqroot\*(rq login,
and the third and fourth lines allow login
at 9600 baud with terminal types of
.B hp2621-nl
and
.BR plugboard ,
respectively.
The fifth and sixth lines are
examples of network pseudo-ttys,
.B ttyp0
and 
.B ttyp1 
for which
.B getty
should  not be enabled.
The seventh line shows a terminal emulator and
window-system startup entry. 
The last two lines instruct
.BR getty,
using the
.B \-n
argument, to run the
.BR logintool (8)
graphic login interface, and the 
.B \-s
argument instructing  
.B logintool
to start
.BR screenblank (1)
with a plain black screen.
The
.B \-l
(lower case L) argument instructs
.B logintool
to start
.BR lockscreen (1).
.B lockscreen
starts after 30 minutes;
there is no way to change this interval.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev
.TP
.B /etc/ttys
.TP
.B /etc/ttytab
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR login (1),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR getttyent (3),
.BR termio (4),
.BR gettytab (5),
.BR termcap (5),
.BR getty (8),
.BR init (8),
.BR logintool (8),
.BR ttysoftcar (8)
