'\" t
.\" @(#)ugid_alloc.range.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH UGID_ALLOC.RANGE 5 "25 September 1989"
.SH NAME
ugid_alloc.range \- range of user IDs and group IDs to allocate
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.B /etc/ugid_alloc.range
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "ugid_alloc.range file" "" "user and group ID range specification file"
.LP
The
.B /etc/ugid_alloc.range
file, if it exists on the
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
master of the
.B passwd.byuid
map (or the
.B group.bygid
map for group
.SM ID\s0s),
specifies the user
.SM ID\s0s
and group
.SM ID\s0s
that can be allocated for the local
.SM NIS
domain by the
.BR uid_allocd (8C)
daemons.
If the file does not exist, user
.SM ID\s0s
or group
.SM ID\s0s
may be allocated beginning at 100 and ending at 60,000;
no user
.SM ID\s0s
or group
.SM ID\s0s
are allocated out of that range in any case.
If the local
.SM NIS 
domain is not listed in this file, no user
.SM ID\s0s
or group
.SM ID\s0s
will be allocated.
Otherwise, this file specifies ranges of user
.SM ID\s0s
or group
.SM ID\s0s
that may be allocated.
The different
.SM NIS
domains on a network can use identical copies of
this file.
.LP
If a network has multiple
.SM NIS
domains, each one will typically
use ranges for its user
.SM ID\s0s
and group
.SM ID\s0s
that do not overlap with the other
.SM NIS
domains, guaranteeing that user
.SM ID\s0s
and group
.SM ID\s0s
are unique throughout the network.
Without guarantees of user
.SM ID
and group
.SM ID
uniqueness, network tools
and services which rely on that uniqueness for security
or authentication will not work as intended.
Such services include
.SM NFS\s0,
except for the \*(lqSecure \s-1NFS\s0,\*(rq
which has other solutions for security and authentication.
Note: the required uniqueness could be guaranteed by
mechanisms other than automatic allocation within manually
configured ranges.
For example, some sites can use a function
of their employee numbers during manual user
.SM ID
allocation, and coordinate group
.SM ID
assignment verbally.
.LP
This file can contain blank lines.
Comments begin with a
.RB ` # '
character and extend to the end of the current line.
The first token on the line is an
.SM NIS
domain name.
It is separated from the second token by white space (\s-1SPACE
or 
.SM TAB
characters).
The second token is either
.I user
or
.IR group ,
indicating that the line specifies user
.SM ID
or group
.SM ID
ranges, respectively.
The third token is a comma-separated list of user or group
.SM ID
ranges in that domain.
These ranges take two forms:
a single number specifies just that 
.SM ID\s0,
and two numbers separated by a dash specify all
.SM ID\s0s
starting at the first number and ending with the second.
.LP
For example, the following file would direct that the manufacturing
department at a particular company use user
.SM ID\s0s
from 700 to 999 or
1200 to 1499.
Accounts created by tools in the
.SM NIS
domain for manufacturing would use a user
.SM ID
in those ranges, and those user accounts could safely
be added to one of the other
.SM NIS
domains if desired (by manually transferring
.SM NIS
map data between the domains).
Group
.SM ID\s0s
are allocated only within the administration domain.
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
# Three departments share our site's network, and each has its
# own Ethernet and master server connected with \s-1IP\s0 routers.
# This file sets the user \s-1ID\s0 ranges assigned to each department.
# Groups are defined by the administration group only.
.fi
.ft P
.TS
lfB lfB lfB .
YP.admin.company.com	user	500-699
YP.manufacturing.company.com	user	700-999
YP.engineering.company.com	user	100-499,1000-1199
YP.manufacturing.company.com	user	1200-1499
YP.admin.company.com	group	100-60000
.TE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR passwd (5),
.BR group (5),
.BR uid_allocd (8C)
.SH BUGS
.LP
There is a limit of forty ranges for each domain;
more ranges are silently ignored.
.br 
.ne 4
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
