.\" @(#)updaters.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH UPDATERS 5 "14 December 1987"
.SH NAME
updaters \- configuration file for NIS updating
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /var/yp/updaters
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "updaters file" "" "\fLupdaters\fP file"
.LP
The file
.B /var/yp/updaters
is a makefile (see
.BR make (1))
which is used for updating the
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
databases.
Databases can only be updated
in a secure network, that is, one that has a
.BR publickey (5)
database.
Each entry in the file is
a make target for a particular
.SM NIS
database.
For example, if there is an
.SM NIS
database named
.B passwd.byname
that can be updated, there should be a
.B make
target named
.B passwd.byname
in the
.B updaters
file with the command to update the file.
.LP
The information necessary to make
the update is passed to the update
command through standard input.
The information passed is described
below (all items are followed by a
.SM NEWLINE\s0,
except for 4 and 6)
.IP \(bu 3
Network name of client wishing to
make the update (a string)
.IP \(bu
Kind of update (an integer)
.IP \(bu
Number of bytes in key (an integer)
.IP \(bu
Actual bytes of key
.IP \(bu
Number of bytes in data (an integer)
.IP \(bu
Actual bytes of data
.LP
After getting this information through
standard input, the command to update
the particular database should decide
whether the user is allowed to make
the change.
If not, it should exit with the status
.BR \s-1YPERR_ACCESS\s0 .
If the user is allowed to make the change,
the command should make the change and
exit with a status of zero.
If there are
any errors that may prevent the updater from
making the change, it should exit with the status
that matches a valid
.SM NIS
error code described in
.BR <rpcsvc/ypclnt.h> .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/yp/updaters
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR make (1),
.BR ypupdate (3N),
.BR publickey (5),
.BR ypupdated (8C)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
The name Yellow Pages is a registered trademark in the United Kingdom
of British Telecommunications plc,
and may not be used without permission.
