.\" @(#)utmp.5v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH UTMP 5V "24 January 1990"
.SH NAME
utmp, wtmp, lastlog \- login records
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <utmp.h>
.br
.B #include <lastlog.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "utmp file"  ""  "\fLutmp\fP \(em login records"
.IX  "wtmp file"  ""  "\fLwtmp\fP \(em login records"
.IX  "lastlog file"  ""  "\fLlastlog\fP \(em login records"
.IX  "login records"  "utmp file"  ""  "\fLutmp\fP file"
.IX  "login records"  "wtmp file"  ""  "\fLwtmp\fP file"
.IX  "login records"  "lastlog file"  ""  "\fLlastlog\fP file"
.SS "utmp file"
The
.B utmp
file records information about who is currently using the system.
The file is a sequence of
.B utmp
structure entries.  That structure is defined in
.BR <utmp.h> ,
and contains the following members:
.RS
.TP 12
.B ut_line
Character array containing the name of the terminal on which the user logged
in.
.TP
.B ut_name
Character array containing the name of the user who logged in.
.TP
.B ut_host
Character array containing
the name of the host from which the user remotely logged in, if they logged
in from another host; otherwise, a null string.
.TP
.B ut_time
.B long
containing the time at which the user logged in, in seconds since 00:00
.SM GMT\s0,
January 1, 1970.
.RE
.LP
Whenever a user logs in,
.BR login (1)
fills in the entry in
.B /etc/utmp
for the terminal on which the user logged in.  When they log out,
.BR init (8)
clears that entry by setting
.B ut_name
and
.B ut_host
to null strings and
.B ut_time
to the time at which the user logged out.
.LP
Some window systems will make entries in
.B utmp
for terminal emulation windows running shells, so that library routines such
as
.B getlogin
will work correctly in that window.  These entries do not directly represent
logged-in users; they are associated with a user who has already logged into
the system on another terminal.  These entries generally have a
.B ut_line
field that refers to a pseudo-terminal, and a
.B ut_host
field that is a null string.
The macro
.BR nonuser ,
defined in
.BR <utmp.h> ,
takes a pointer to a
.B utmp
structure as an argument and, if the entry has a
.B ut_line
field that refers to a pseudo-terminal, and a
.B ut_host
field that is a null string, will return 1; otherwise, it will return 0.
This can be used by programs that print information about logged-in users if
they should not list entries made for logged-in users' additional windows.
.SS "wtmp file"
The
.B wtmp
file records all logins and logouts.  It also consists of a sequence of
.B utmp
entries.
.LP
Whenever a user logs in,
.B login
appends a record identical to the record it placed in
.B utmp
to the end of
.B /var/adm/wtmp.
Whenever a user logs out,
.B init
appends a record with
.B ut_line
equal to the terminal that the user was logged in on,
.B ut_name
and
.B ut_host
null, and
.B ut_time
equal to the time at which the user logged out.
.LP
When the system is shut down,
.B init
appends a record with a
.B ut_line
of
.BR ~ ,
a
.B ut_name
of
.BR shutdown ,
a null
.BR ut_host ,
and a
.B ut_time
equal to the time at which the shutdown occurred.
When the system is rebooted,
.B init
appends a record with a
.B ut_line
of
.BR ~ ,
a
.B ut_name
of
.BR reboot ,
a null
.BR ut_host ,
and a
.B ut_time
equal to the time at which
.B init
wrote the record.
.LP
When the
.B date
command is used to change the system-maintained time,
.B date
appends a record with a
.B ut_line
of
.BR | ,
.B ut_name
and
.B ut_host
null,
and
.B ut_time
equal to the system time before the change, and then appends a record with a
.B ut_line
of
.BR { ,
.B ut_name
and
.B ut_host
null,
and
.B ut_time
equal to the system time after the change.
.LP
None of the programs that maintain
.B wtmp
create the file,
so that if record-keeping is to be enabled, it must be created by hand as a
zero-length file,
and if it is removed, record-keeping is turned off.  It is summarized by
.BR ac (8).
.LP
As
.B wtmp
is appended to whenever a user logs in or out, it should be
truncated periodically so that it does not consume all the disk space on its
file system.
.SS "lastlog file"
The
.B lastlog
file records the most recent login-date for every user logged
in.  The file is a sequence of
.B lastlog
structure entries.  That structure is defined in
.BR <lastlog.h> ,
and contains the following members:
.RS
.TP 12
.B ll_time
.B long
containing the time at which the user logged in, in seconds since 00:00
.SM GMT\s0,
January 1, 1970.
.TP
.B ll_line
Character array containing the name of the terminal on which the user logged
in.
.TP
.B ll_host
Character array containing
the name of the host from which the user remotely logged in, if they logged
in from another host; otherwise, a null string.
.RE
.LP
When reporting (and updating) the most recent login date,
.B login
performs an
.BR lseek (2V)
to a byte-offset in 
.BR /var/adm/lastlog 
corresponding to the userid.  Because
the count of userids may be high, whereas the number actual users
may be small within a network environment, the bulk of this file
may never be allocated by the file system even though an offset
may appear to be quite large.  
Although
.BR ls (1V)
may show it to be large,
chances are that this file need not be truncated.
.BR du (1V)
will report the correct (smaller) amount of space actually
allocated to it.
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
.LP
For
.SM XPG2
conformance, the
.SM XPG2
private
.B utmp
structure is preserved for use by
.XM XPG2
compliant applications that specifically use the
.B utmp structure.
The structure is defined in
.BR /usr/xpg2include/utmp.h .
Note:
this structure definition was removed in
.SM XPG3\s0,
and will be removed in a future SunOS release.
Applications using the
.SM XPG2
.B utmp
structure must do so on an application private basis.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/utmp
.TP
.B /var/adm/wtmp
.TP
.B /var/adm/lastlog
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR login (1),
.BR who (1),
.BR ac (8),
.BR init (8)
