.\" @(#)ypfiles.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH YPFILES 5 "14 December 1987"
.SH NAME
ypfiles \- NIS database and directory structure
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ypfiles file"  ""  "\fLypfiles\fP \(em NIS database and directory"
.LP
The 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
uses a distributed,
replicated database of
.B dbm
files contained in the
.B /var/yp
directory hierarchy on each
.SM NIS
server.  A
.B dbm
database consists of two files, created by calls to the
.BR ndbm (3)
library package.  One has the filename extension
.B .pag
and the other has the filename extension
.BR .dir .
For instance, the database named
.BR hosts.byname ,
is implemented by the pair of files
.B hosts.byname.pag
and
.BR hosts.byname.dir .
.LP
A
.B dbm
database served by the
.SM NIS
service is called an
.SM NIS
.IR map .
An
.SM NIS
.I domain
is a subdirectory of
.B /var/yp
containing a set of
.SM NIS
maps.  Any number of
.SM NIS
domains can exist.  Each may contain any number of
maps.
.LP
No maps are required by the
.SM NIS
lookup service itself, although they may
be required for the normal operation of
other parts of the system.  There is
no list of maps which the
.SM NIS
service serves \(em if the map exists in a given domain, and a
client asks about it, the
.SM NIS
service will serve it.
For a map to be
accessible consistently, it must exist on all
.SM NIS
servers that serve the domain.  To provide data
consistency between the replicated maps,
an  entry to run
.B ypxfr
periodically should be made in the super-user's
.B crontab
file on each server.  More information on this topic is in
.BR ypxfr (8).
.LP
The
.SM NIS
maps should contain two distinguished
key-value pairs.  The first is the key
.BR \s-1YP_LAST_MODIFIED\s0 ,
having as a value a ten-character
.SM ASCII
order number.  The order number should be the
system time in seconds when the map was built.
The second key is
.BR \s-1YP_MASTER_NAME\s0 ,
with the name of the
.SM NIS
master server as a value.
.BR makedbm (8)
generates both key-value pairs automatically.
A map that does not contain both
key-value pairs can be served by the
.SM NIS
service,
but the
.B ypserv
process will not be able to return values for
\*(lqGet order number\*(rq or \*(lqGet master name\*(rq requests.
See
.BR ypserv (8).
In addition, values of these two keys are used by
.B ypxfr
when it transfers a map from a master
.SM NIS
server to a slave.  If
.B ypxfr
cannot figure out where to get the map,
or if it is unable to
determine whether the local copy is more
recent than the copy at the master,
you must set extra command line
switches when you run it.
.LP
The
.SM NIS
maps must be generated and modified
only at the master server.  They
are copied to the slaves using
.BR ypxfr (8)
to avoid potential byte-ordering problems among the
.SM NIS
servers running on machines with different
architectures, and to minimize the amount of disk
space required for the dbm files.  The
.SM NIS
database can be initially
set up for both masters and slaves by using
.BR ypinit (8).
.LP
After the server databases are set up, it
is probable that the contents of
some maps will change.  In general, some
.SM ASCII
source version of the
database exists on the master, and it
is changed with a standard text
editor.  The update is incorporated into the
.SM NIS
map and is propagated from
the master to the slaves by running
.BR /var/yp/Makefile .
All Sun-supplied maps have entries in
.BR /var/yp/Makefile ;
if you add an
.SM NIS
map, edit this file to support the new map.
The makefile uses
.BR makedbm (8)
to generate the
.SM NIS
map on the master, and
.BR yppush (8)
to propagate the changed map to the slaves.
.B yppush
is a client of the map
.BR ypservers ,
which lists all the
.SM NIS
servers.
For more information on this topic, see
.BR yppush (8).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/yp
.TP
.B /var/yp/Makefile
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dbm (3X),
.BR makedbm (8),
.BR rpcinfo (8C),
.BR ypinit (8),
.BR ypmake (8),
.BR yppoll (8),
.BR yppush (8),
.BR ypserv (8),
.BR ypxfr (8)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
The name Yellow Pages is a registered trademark in the United Kingdom
of British Telecommunications plc,
and may not be used without permission.
