.\" @(#)access.2v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH ACCESS 2V "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
access \- determine accessibility of file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <unistd.h>
.LP
.ft B
.ta 1.25i 1.6i
.LP
.ft B
int access(path, mode)
char *path;
int mode;
.fi
.ft R
.IX  access()  ""  \fLaccess()\fP
.IX  "file system"  access()  ""  \fLaccess()\fP
.IX  file  "determine accessibility of"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I path
points to a path name naming a file.
.B access(\|)
checks the named file
for accessibility according to
.IR mode ,
which is an inclusive or of the following bits:
.LP
.RS
.TP 15
.SB R_OK
test for read permission
.TP
.SB W_OK
test for write permission
.TP
.SB X_OK
test for execute or search permission
.RE
.LP
The following value may also be supplied for
.IR mode :
.RS
.TP 15
.SB F_OK
test whether the directories leading to the file can be searched and the file exists.
.RE
.LP
The real user
.SM ID
and the supplementary group \s-1ID\s0s (including the real group
.SM ID\s0)
are used in verifying permission, so
this call is useful to set-\s-1UID\s0
programs.
.LP
Notice that only access bits are checked.  A directory may be indicated as writable by
.BR access(\|) ,
but an attempt to open it for writing will fail
(although files may be created there); a file may look executable, but
.B execve(\|)
will fail unless it is in proper format.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B access(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 20
.SM EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of
.IR path .
.IP
The file access permissions do not permit the requested
access to the file named by
.IR path .
.TP
.SM EFAULT
.I path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
.SM EINVAL
An invalid value was specified for
.IR mode .
.TP
.SM EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.TP
.SM ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.TP
.SM ENAMETOOLONG
The length of the path argument exceeds
.SM {PATH_MAX}\s0.
.IP
A pathname component is longer than
.SM {NAME_MAX}
while
.SM {_POSIX_NO_TRUNC}
is in effect (see
.BR pathconf (2V)).
.TP
.SM ENOENT
The file named by
.I path
does not exist.
.TP
.SM ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix of
.I path
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM EROFS
The file named by
.I path
is on a read-only file system and write access was requested.
.SH SYSTEM V ERRORS
.LP
In addtion to the above, the following may also occur:
.TP 20
.SM ENOENT
.I path
points to an empty string.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chmod (2V),
.BR stat (2V)
