.\" @(#)acct.2v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2 and S5
.TH ACCT 2V "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
acct \- turn accounting on or off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
int acct (path)
char \(**path;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  acct() "" "\fLacct()\fP \(em process accounting on or off"
.IX  "system operation support"  "process accounting \(em \fLacct()\fR"
.IX  accounting  "process accounting, turn on or off \(em \fLacct()\fR"
.LP
.B acct(\|)
is used to enable or disable the process accounting.
If process accounting is enabled, an accounting record will be written on an
accounting file for each process that terminates.
Termination can be caused by one of two things: an
.B exit(\|)
call or a signal; see
.B exit (2V)
and
.BR sigvec (2).
The effective user
.SM ID
of the calling process must be super-user to use this call.
.LP
.I path
points to a path name naming the accounting file.
The accounting file format is given in
.BR acct (5).
.LP
The accounting routine is enabled if
.I path
is not a
.SM NULL
pointer and no errors occur during the system call.
It is disabled if
.I path
is a
.SM NULL
pointer and no errors occur during the system call.
.LP
If accounting is already turned on, and a successful
.B acct(\|)
call is made with a non-\s-1NULL\s0
.IR path ,
all subsequent accounting records will be written to the new accounting file.
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
.LP
If accounting is already turned on, 
it is an error to call
.B acct(\|)
with a non-\s-1NULL\s0 path.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
acct(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 20
.SM EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of
.IR path .
.IP
The file referred to by
.I path
is not a regular file.
.TP
.SM EFAULT
.I path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
.SM EINVAL
Support for accounting was not configured into the system.
.TP
.SM EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.TP
.SM ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the path name.
.TP
.SM ENAMETOOLONG
The length of the path argument exceeds
.SM {PATH_MAX}\s0.
.IP
A pathname component is longer than
.SM {NAME_MAX}
(see
.BR sysconf (2V))
while
.SM {_POSIX_NO_TRUNC}
is in effect
(see
.BR pathconf (2V)).
.TP
.SM ENOENT
The named file does not exist.
.TP
.SM ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix of
.I path
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM EPERM
The caller is not the super-user.
.TP
.SM EROFS
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.SH SYSTEM V ERRORS
.TP 20
.SM EBUSY
.I path
is non-\s-1NULL\s0, and accounting is already turned on.
.TP
.SM ENOENT
.I path
points to an empty string.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR exit (2V),
.BR sigvec (2),
.BR acct (5),
.BR sa (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
No accounting records are produced for programs running when a crash occurs.
In particular non-terminating programs are never accounted for.
.SH NOTES
.LP
Accounting is automatically disabled when free space on the file system the
accounting file resides on drops below 2 percent; it is enabled when
free space rises above 4 percent.
