.\" @(#)auditon.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH AUDITON 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
auditon \- manipulate auditing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/label.h>
#include <sys/audit.h>
.LP
.ft B
int auditon (condition)
int condition;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "auditon function" "" "\fLauditon()\fP function"
.LP
The
.B auditon(\|)
system call sets system auditing to the requested
.I condition
if and only if the current state of auditing allows that transition.
Legitimate values for
.I condition
are:
.LP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 20
.SB AUC_UNSET
on/off has not been decided yet
.TP
.SB AUC_AUDITING
auditing is to be done
.TP
.SB AUC_NOAUDIT
auditing is not to be done
.PD
.RE
.LP
The permitted transitions are:
.TP 3
\(bu
Any condition may be changed back to itself.
.TP 3
\(bu
.SB AUC_UNSET
may be changed to
.SB AUC_AUDITING
or
.SB AUC_NOAUDIT\s0\fR.
.TP 3
\(bu
.SB AUC_AUDITING
may be changed to
.SB AUC_NOAUDIT\s0\fR.
.TP 3
\(bu
.SB AUC_NOAUDIT
may be changed to
.SB AUC_AUDITING\s0\fR.
.LP
Once changed, it is not possible to get back to
.SB AUC_UNSET\s0\fR.
.LP
Only the super-user may successfully execute this call.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.B auditon(\|)
returns
the old audit condition value
on success.
On failure,
it returns
\-1
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH "ERRORS"
.TP 15
.SM EINVAL
The
.I condition
specified is outside the range of valid values.
.IP
The current condition precludes the requested change.
.TP
.SM EPERM
Neither of the process's effective or real user
.SM ID
is super-user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR audit (2),
.BR setuseraudit (2)
