.\" @(#)auditsvc.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH AUDITSVC 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
auditsvc \- write audit records to specified file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
int auditsvc(fd, limit)
int fd;
int limit;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "auditsvc function" "" "\fLauditsvc()\fP function"
.LP
The
.B auditsvc(\|)
system call specifies the audit log file to the kernel.
The kernel writes audit records to this file until an exceptional
condition occurs and then the call returns.
The parameter
.I fd
is a file descriptor that identifies the audit file.
Programs should open this file for writing before calling
.BR auditsvc(\|) .
The parameter
.I limit
specifies a value between 0 and 100, instructing
.B auditsvc(\|)
to return when the percentage of free disk space
on the audit filesystem drops below this limit.
Thus, the invoking program can take action
to avoid running out of disk space.  The
.B auditsvc(\|)
system call does not return until one of
the following conditions occurs:
.TP 3
\(bu
The process receives a signal that is not blocked or ignored.
.TP
\(bu
An error is encountered writing to the audit log file.
.TP
\(bu
The minimum free space (as specified by
.IR limit ),
has been reached.
.LP
Only processes with a real or effective user
.SM ID
of super-user may execute this call successfully.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B auditsvc(\|)
returns only on an error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EAGAIN
The descriptor referred to a
.IR stream ,
was marked for System V-style non-blocking I/O,
and no data could be written immediately.
.TP
.SM EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid descriptor open for writing.
.TP
.SM EBUSY
A second process attempted to perform this call.
.IP
A second process attempted to perform this call.
.TP
.SM EDQUOT
The user's quota of disk blocks on the file system containing the
file has been exhausted.
.IP
Audit filesystem space is below the specified limit.
.TP
.SM EFBIG
An attempt was made to write a file that exceeds the process's
file size limit or the maximum file size.
.TP
.SM EINTR
The call is forced to terminate prematurely due to the arrival of a signal whose
.SB SV_INTERRUPT
bit in
.B sv_flags
is set  (see
.BR sigvec (2)).
.BR signal (3V),
in the System V compatibility library, sets this bit for any signal it catches.
.TP
.SM EINVAL
Auditing is disabled (see
.BR auditon (2)).
.IP
.I fd
does not refer to a file of an appropriate type.  Regular files are always
appropriate.
.TP
.SM EIO	
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.TP
.SM ENOSPC
There is no free space remaining on the file system containing the file.
.TP
.SM ENXIO
A hangup occurred on the
.I stream
being written to.
.TP
.SM EPERM
The process's effective or real user
.SM ID
is not super-user.
.TP
.SM EWOULDBLOCK
The file was marked for 4.2\s-1BSD\s0-style non-blocking I/O,
and no data could be written immediately.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR audit (2),
.BR auditon (2),
.BR sigvec (2),
.BR signal (3V),
.BR audit.log (5),
.BR auditd (8)
