.\" @(#)bind.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH BIND 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
bind \- bind a name to a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/socket.h>
.LP
.ft B
int bind(s, name, namelen)
int s;
struct sockaddr *name;
int namelen;
.fi
.IX  bind()  ""  \fLbind()\fP
.IX  "socket operations"  bind()  ""  \fLbind()\fP
.IX  "interprocess communication"  bind()  ""  \fLbind()\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B bind(\|)
assigns a name to an unnamed socket.
When a socket is created with
.BR socket (2)
it exists in a name space (address family)
but has no name assigned.
.B bind(\|)
requests that the name pointed to by
.I name
be assigned to the socket.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B bind(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 20
.SM EACCES
The requested address is protected, and the current user
has inadequate permission to access it.
.TP
.SM EADDRINUSE
The specified address is already in use.
.TP
.SM EADDRNOTAVAIL
The specified address is not available from the local machine.
.TP
.SM EBADF
.I s
is not a valid descriptor.
.TP
.SM EFAULT
The
.I name
parameter is not in a valid part of the user
address space.
.TP
.SM EINVAL
.I namelen
is not the size of a valid address for the specified address family.
.IP
The socket is already bound to an address.
.TP
.SM ENOTSOCK
.I s
is a descriptor for a file, not a socket.
.LP
The following errors are specific to
binding names in the
.SM UNIX
domain:
.TP 20
.SM EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of the
path name in
.IR name .
.TP
.SM EIO
An I/O error occurred while making the directory entry or allocating the inode.
.TP
.SM EISDIR
A null path name was specified.
.TP
.SM ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the path name in
.IR name .
.TP
.SM ENAMETOOLONG
The length of the path argument exceeds
.SM {PATH_MAX}\s0.
.IP
A pathname component is longer than
.SM {NAME_MAX}
(see
.BR sysconf (2V))
while
.SM {_POSIX_NO_TRUNC}
is in effect
(see
.BR pathconf (2V)).
.TP
.SM ENOENT
A component of the path prefix of the path name in
.I name
does not exist.
.TP
.SM ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix of the path name in
.I name
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM EROFS
The inode would reside on a read-only file system.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR connect (2),
.BR getsockname (2),
.BR listen (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR unlink (2V)
.SH NOTES
.LP
Binding a name in the
.SM UNIX
domain creates a socket in the file
system that must be deleted by the caller when it is no longer
needed (using
.BR unlink (2V),
.LP
The rules used in name binding vary between communication domains.
Consult the manual entries in section 4 for detailed information.
