.\" @(#)chdir.2v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from 4.2 BSD
.TH CHDIR 2V "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
chdir \- change current working directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
int chdir(path)
char \(**path;
.LP
.ft B
int fchdir(fd)
int fd;
.ft R
.fi
.IX  chdir()  ""  \fLchdir()\fP
.IX  "file system"  chdir()  ""  \fLchdir()\fP
.IX  change  "current working directory"
.IX  "current directory"  change
.IX  "working directory"  change
.IX  directory  "change current"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B chdir(\|)
and
.B fchdir(\|)
make the directory specified by
.I path
or
.I fd
the current working directory.
Subsequent references to pathnames not starting with
.RB ` / '
are relative to the new current working directory.
.LP
In order for a directory to become the current directory,
a process must have execute (search) access to the directory.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B chdir(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 20
.SM EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the pathname.
.TP
.SM ENAMETOOLONG
The length of the path argument exceeds
.SM {PATH_MAX}\s0.
.IP
A pathname component is longer than
.SM {NAME_MAX}
while
.SM {_POSIX_NO_TRUNC}
is in effect (see
.BR pathconf (2V)).
.TP
.SM ENOENT
The named directory does not exist.
.TP
.SM ENOTDIR
A component of the pathname is not a directory.
.SH SYSTEM V ERRORS
.LP
In addition to the above, the following may also occur:
.TP 20
.SM ENOENT
.I path
points to an empty string.
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
.B fchdir(\|)
is provided as a performance enhancement and is guaranteed to fail
under certain conditions.
In particular, if auditing is active the call will never succeed, and
.SM EINVAL
will be returned.
Applications which use this system call must be coded to detect this
failure and switch to using
.B chdir(\|)
from that point on.
