.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)exit.2v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 6.4 5/22/86
.TH EXIT 2V "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
_exit \- terminate a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
void _exit(status)
int status;
.fi
.IX  exit()  ""  \fLexit()\fP
.IX  "processes and protection"  exit()  ""  \fLexit()\fP
.IX  process  terminate
.IX  "terminate process"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B _exit(\|)
terminates a process with the following consequences:
.LP
All of the descriptors open in the calling process are closed.
This may entail delays, for example, waiting for output to drain;
a process in this state may not be killed, as it is already dying.
.LP
If the parent process of the calling process is executing a
.B wait(\|)
or
.BR waitpid(\|) ,
or is interested in the
.SB SIGCHLD
signal,
then it is notified of the calling process's termination and
the low-order eight bits of
.I status
are made available to it
(see
.BR wait (2V)).
.LP
If the parent process of the calling process is not executing a
.B wait(\|)
or
.BR waitpid(\|) ,
.I status
is saved for return to the parent process whenever the parent process
executes an appropriate subsequent
.B wait(\|)
or
.BR waitpid(\|) .
.LP
The parent process
.SM ID
of all of the calling process's existing child
processes are also set to 1.  This means that the initialization process
(see
.BR intro (2))
inherits each of these processes as well.
Any stopped children are restarted with
a hangup signal (\c
.SB SIGHUP\fR\s0).
.LP
If the process is a controlling process,
.SB SIGHUP
is sent to each process in the foreground process group of the controlling
terminal belonging to the calling process, and
the controlling terminal associated with the session is disassociated
from the session,
allowing it to be acquired by a new controlling process (see
.BR setsid (2V)).
.\" should there be a ref. to Intro(2) here (re controlling process)?
.LP
If
.B _exit(\|)
causes a process group to become orphaned,
and if any member of the newly-orphaned process group is stopped,
then
.SB SIGHUP
followed by
.SB SIGCONT
is sent to each process in the newly-orphaned process group
(see
.BR setpgid (2V)).
.LP
Each attached shared memory segment is detached and the value of
.B shm_nattach
in the data structure associated with its shared memory identifier is
decremented by 1.
.LP
For each semaphore for which the calling process has set a
.I semadj
value (see
.BR semop (2)),
that
.I semadj
value is added to the
.I semval
of the specified semaphore.
.LP
If process accounting is enabled (see
.BR acct (2V)),
an accounting record is written to the accounting file.
.LP
Most C programs will call the library routine
.BR exit (3)
which performs cleanup actions in the standard I/O library before
calling
.BR _exit(\|) .
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.B _exit(\|)
never returns.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR intro (2),
.BR acct (2V),
.BR fork (2V),
.BR semop (2),
.BR wait (2V),
.BR exit (3)
