.\" @(#)fsync.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.TH FSYNC 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
fsync \- synchronize a file's in-core state with that on disk
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
int fsync(fd)
.ft
.fi
.LP
.B int fd;
.IX  fsync()  ""  "\fLfsync()\fP \(em synchronize disk file with core image"
.IX  file   "synchronize state \(em \fLfsync()\fR"
.IX  "synchronize file state \(em \fLfsync()\fR"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B fsync(\|)
moves all modified data and attributes of
.I fd
to a permanent storage device: all in-core modified copies
of buffers for the associated file have been written to a disk when
the call returns.  Note: this is different than
.BR sync (2)
which schedules disk I/O for all files (as though an
.B fsync(\|)
had been done on all files)
but returns before the I/O completes.
.LP
.B fsync(\|)
should be used by programs which require a file to be
in a known state; for example, a program which contains
a simple transaction facility might use it to ensure that all
modifications to a file or files caused by a transaction were
recorded on disk.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B fsync(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid descriptor.
.TP
.SM EINVAL
.I fd
refers to a socket, not a file.
.\" is this too specific?  Could fd refer to something else and still give
.\" EINVAL?
.TP
.SM EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cron (8),
.BR sync (2)
