.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)getdtablesize.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 6.2 6/28/85
.TH GETDTABLESIZE 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
getdtablesize \- get descriptor table size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
getdtablesize(\|)
.fi
.ft R
.IX  getdtablesize()  ""  \fLgetdtablesize()\fP
.IX  descriptors  getdtablesize()  ""  \fLgetdtablesize()\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.\"Each process has a fixed size descriptor table,
.\"which is guaranteed to have at least 20 slots.  The entries in
.\"the descriptor table are numbered with small integers starting at 0.
.\"The call
.\".B getdtablesize(\|)
.\"returns the size of this table.
The call
.B getdtablesize(\|)
returns the current value of the soft limit component of the
.B
.SM RLIMIT_NOFILE
resource limit.
This resource limit governs the maximum value allowable
as the index of a newly created descriptor.
.SH WARNINGS
.B getdtablesize
is implemented as a system call only for binary compatibility
with previous releases.
.LP
Because of possible intervening
.BR getrlimit (2)
calls affecting
.B
.SM RLIMIT_NOFILE\c
,
repeated calls to
.B getdtablesize(\|)
may return different values.
Thus it is unwise to cache the return value
in an effort to avoid system call overhead,
unless it is known that such intervening calls do not occur.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR close (2V),
.BR dup (2V),
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR open (2V)
