.\" @(#)getdomainname.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH GETDOMAINNAME 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
getdomainname, setdomainname \- get/set name of current domain
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
int getdomainname(name, namelen)
char \(**name;
int namelen;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int setdomainname(name, namelen)
char \(**name;
int namelen;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  getdomainname()  ""  "\fLgetdomainname()\fP \(em get process domain"
.IX  "processes and protection"  getdomainname()  ""  \fLgetdomainname()\fP
.IX  domain  "get name of current \(em \fLgetdomainname()\fR"
.IX  get "process domain name \(em \fLgetdomainname()\fR"
.IX  setdomainname()  ""  "\fLsetdomainname()\fP \(em set process domain"
.IX  "processes and protection"  setdomainname()  ""  \fLsetdomainname()\fP
.IX  domain  "set name of current \(em \fLsetdomainname()\fR"
.IX  set "process domain name \(em \fLsetdomainname()\fR"
.LP
.B getdomainname(\|)
returns the name of the domain for the current processor, as previously
set by
.BR setdomainname .
The parameter
.I namelen
specifies the size of the array pointed to by
.IR name .
The returned name is null-terminated unless insufficient space
is provided.
.LP
.B setdomainname(\|)
sets the domain of the host machine to be
.IR name ,
which has length
.IR namelen .
This call is restricted to the super-user and is normally used only
when the system is bootstrapped.
.LP
The purpose of domains is to enable two distinct networks that may have
host names in common to merge.
Each network would be distinguished by
having a different domain name.
At the current time, only the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
and
.BR sendmail (8)
make use of domains.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B getdomainname(\|)
and
.B setdomainname(\|)
return:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and set
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EFAULT
The
.I name
parameter gave an invalid address.
.LP
In addition to the above,
.BR setdomainname(\|)
will fail if:
.TP 15
.SM EPERM
The caller was not the super-user.
.SH NOTES
.LP
Domain names are limited to 64 characters.
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
