.\" @(#)gethostname.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH GETHOSTNAME 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
gethostname, sethostname \- get/set name of current host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
int gethostname(name, namelen)
char \(**name;
int namelen;
.LP
.ft B
int sethostname(name, namelen)
char \(**name;
int namelen;
.fi
.IX  gethostname()  ""  \fLgethostname()\fP
.IX  "processes and protection"  gethostname()  ""  \fLgethostname()\fP
.IX  sethostname()  ""  \fLsethostname()\fP
.IX  "processes and protection"  sethostname()  ""  \fLsethostname()\fP
.IX  host "get/set name \(em \fLgethostname()\fR"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B gethostname(\|)
returns the standard host name for the current processor, as previously set by
.BR sethostname(\|) .
The parameter
.I namelen
specifies the size of the array pointed to by
.IR name .
The returned name is null-terminated unless insufficient
space is provided.
.LP
.B sethostname(\|)
sets the name of the host machine to be
.IR name ,
which has length
.IR namelen .
This call is restricted to the super-user and
is normally used only when the system is bootstrapped.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B gethostname(\|)
and
.B sethostname(\|)
return:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and set
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EFAULT
The
.I name
or
.I namelen
parameter gave an
invalid address.
.LP
In addition to the above,
.B sethostname(\|)
may set
.B errno
to:
.TP 15
.SM EPERM
The caller was not the super-user.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gethostid (2)
.SH NOTES
.LP
Host names are limited to
.SB MAXHOSTNAMELEN
(from
.BR <sys/param.h> )
characters, currently 64.
