.\" @(#)ioctl.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH IOCTL 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
ioctl \- control device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
int ioctl(fd, request, arg)
int fd, request;
caddr_t arg;
.ft R
.fi
.IX  ioctl()  ""  \fLioctl()\fR
.IX  "generic operations"  ioctl()  ""  \fLioctl()\fR
.IX  "control devices \(em \fLioctl()\fR"
.IX  "device controls \(em \fLioctl()\fR"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B ioctl(\|)
performs a special function on the object referred to by the open descriptor
.IR fd .
The set of functions that may be performed depends on the object that
.I fd
refers to.  For example, many operating
characteristics of character special files (for
instance, terminals)
may be controlled with
.B ioctl(\|)
requests.
The writeups in section 4 discuss how
.B ioctl(\|)
applies to various objects.
.LP
The
.I request
codes for particular functions
are specified in include files specific to objects or to families of
objects; the writeups in section 4 indicate which include files specify
which
.IR request s.
.LP
For most
.B ioctl(\|)
functions,
.I arg
is a pointer to data to be used by the function or to
be filled in by the function.
Other functions may ignore
.I arg
or may treat it directly as a data item; they may, for example, be passed an
.B int
value.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.B ioctl(\|)
returns
0
on success for most requests.
Some specialized requests may return non-zero values on success; see
the description of the request in the man page for the object.
On failure,
.B ioctl(\|)
returns
\-1
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid
descriptor.
.TP
.SM EFAULT
.I request
requires a data transfer to or from
a buffer pointed to by
.IR arg ,
but some part of the buffer is outside
the process's allocated space.
.TP
.SM EINVAL
.I request
or
.I arg
is not valid.
.TP
.SM ENOTTY
The specified request does not apply to the kind
of object to which the descriptor
.I fd
refers.
.LP
.B ioctl(\|)
will also fail if the object on which the function is being
performed detects an error. In this case, an error code specific to
the object and the function will be returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR execve (2V),
.BR fcntl (2V),
.BR filio (4),
.BR mtio (4),
.BR sockio (4),
.BR streamio (4),
.BR termio (4)
