.\" @(#)mprotect.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH MPROTECT 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
mprotect \- set protection of memory mapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/mman.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
mprotect(addr, len, prot)
caddr_t addr;
int len, prot;
.ft
.fi
.IX  mprotect()  ""  \fLmprotect()\fP
.IX  "memory management"  mprotect()  ""  \fLmprotect()\fP
.IX  "change mapping protections \(em \fLmprotect()\fP"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B mprotect(\|)
changes the access protections on the mappings specified
by
the range
[\fIaddr, addr + len\fP\^)
to be that specified by
.IR prot .
Legitimate values for
.I prot
are the same as those permitted for
.BR mmap (2).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B mprotect(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EACCES
.I prot
specifies a protection which violates the access permission
the process has to the underlying memory object.
.TP
.SM EINVAL
.I addr
is not a multiple of the page size as returned
by
.BR getpagesize (2).
.TP
.SM ENOMEM
Addresses in the range
[\fIaddr, addr + len\fP)
are invalid for the address space of a process,
or specify one or more pages which are not mapped.
.LP
When
.B mprotect(\|)
fails for reasons other than
.SM EINVAL\s0\fR,
the protections on some of the pages in the range
[\fIaddr, addr + len\fP)
will have been changed.  If the error occurs
on some page at address
.IR addr2 ,
then the protections of
all whole pages in the range
[\fIaddr, addr2\fP\^)
have been modified.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getpagesize (2),
.BR mmap (2)
