.\" @(#)msgget.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH MSGGET 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
msgget \- get message queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ipc.h>
#include <sys/msg.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int msgget(key, msgflg)
key_t key;
int msgflg;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  msgget()  ""  \fLmsgget()\fR
.IX  "message control operations"  msgget()  ""  \fLmsgget()\fR
.B msgget(\|)
returns the message queue identifier associated with
.BR key .
.LP
A message queue identifier and associated message queue and data structure
(see
.BR intro (2))
are created for
.B key(\|)
if one of the following is true:
.TP 3
\(bu
.I key
is equal to
.SM
.BR IPC_PRIVATE \s0.
.TP
\(bu
.I key
does not already have a message queue identifier associated with it, and
.RI ( msgflg " & "
.SM
.BR IPC_CREAT \s0)
is ``true''.
.LP
Upon creation, the data structure associated with the new message queue
identifier is initialized as follows:
.TP 3
\(bu
.BR msg_perm.cuid ", " msg_perm.uid ,
.BR msg_perm.cgid ", and " msg_perm.gid
are set equal to the effective user
.SM ID
and effective group
.SM ID\s0,
respectively, of the calling process.
.TP
\(bu
The low-order 9 bits of
.B msg_perm.mode
are set equal to the low-order 9 bits of
.IR msgflg .
.TP
\(bu
.BR msg_qnum ", " msg_lspid ", " msg_lrpid ,
.BR msg_stime ", and " msg_rtime "
are set equal to 0.
.TP
\(bu
.B msg_ctime
is set equal to the current time.
.TP
\(bu
.B msg_qbytes
is set equal to the system-wide standard value of the maximum number of bytes
allowed on a message queue.
.LP
A message queue identifier
(msqid)
is a unique positive integer created by a
.BR msgget (2)
system call.
Each msqid has a message queue and a data structure associated with it.
The data structure is referred to as
.B msqid_ds(\|)
and contains the following members:
.LP
.RS
.ta 8n 28n
.ft B
.nf
struct	ipc_perm msg_perm;	/\(** operation permission struct \(**/
ushort	msg_qnum;	/\(** number of msgs on q \(**/
ushort	msg_qbytes;	/\(** max number of bytes on q \(**/
ushort	msg_lspid;	/\(** pid of last msgsnd operation \(**/
ushort	msg_lrpid;	/\(** pid of last msgrcv operation \(**/
time_t	msg_stime;	/\(** last msgsnd time \(**/
time_t	msg_rtime;	/\(** last msgrcv time \(**/
time_t	msg_ctime;	/\(** last change time \(**/
		/\(** Times measured in secs since \(**/
		/\(** 00:00:00 \s-1GMT\s+1, Jan. 1, 1970 \(**/
.fi
.ft
.RE
.LP
.B msg_perm(\|)
is an ipc_perm structure that
specifies the message operation permission (see below).
This structure includes the following members:
.LP
.RS
.ta 8n 28n
.ft B
.nf
ushort	cuid;	/\(** creator user id \(**/
ushort	cgid;	/\(** creator group id \(**/
ushort	uid;	/\(** user id \(**/
ushort	gid;	/\(** group id \(**/
ushort	mode;	/\(** r/w permission \(**/
.LP
.ft
.fi
.RE
.B msg_qnum
is the number of messages currently on the queue.
.B msg_qbytes
is the maximum number of bytes allowed on the queue.
.B msg_lspid
is the process ID of the last process that performed a
.BR msgsnd " operation."
.B msg_lrpid
is the process ID of the last process that performed a
.BR msgrcv " operation."
.B msg_stime
is the time of the last
.I msgsnd
operation,
.B msg_rtime
is the time of the last
.I msgrcv
operation, and
.B msg_ctime
is the time of the last
.BR msgctl (2)
operation that changed a member of the above structure.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.B msgget(\|)
returns
A non-negative message queue identifier
on success.
On failure,
it returns
\-1
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EACCES
A message queue identifier exists for
.BR key ,
but operation permission (see
.BR intro (2))
as specified by the low-order 9 bits of
.B msgflg
would not be granted.
.TP
.SM EEXIST
A message queue identifier exists for
.B key(\|)
but
.RB "( (" msgflg " & "
.SB IPC_CREAT\*S\s0\fR) & (\fBmsgflg\fR &
.SB IPC_EXCL\*S\s0\fR))
is ``true''.
.TP
.SM ENOENT
A message queue identifier does not exist for
.B key(\|)
and
.RB ( msgflg " & "
\fB\s-1IPC_CREAT\s0\fR)
is ``false''.
.TP
.SM ENOSPC
A message queue identifier is to be created but
the system-imposed limit on the maximum number of
allowed message queue identifiers system wide
would be exceeded.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR intro (2),
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR msgop (2)
