.\" @(#)readlink.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH READLINK 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
readlink \- read value of a symbolic link
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int readlink(path, buf, bufsiz)
char *path, *buf;
int bufsiz;
.ft R
.fi
.IX  readlink()  ""  \fLreadlink()\fP
.IX  "file system"  readlink()  ""  \fLreadlink()\fP
.IX  "symbolic link"  "read value of"
.IX  link  "read value of symbolic"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B readlink(\|)
places the contents of the symbolic link referred to by
.I path
in the buffer
.I buf
which has size
.IR bufsiz .
The contents of the link are not null terminated when returned.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B readlink(\|)
returns
the number of characters placed in the buffer
on success.
On failure,
it returns
\-1
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
.B readlink(\|)
will fail and the buffer will be unchanged if:
.TP 20
.SM EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of
.IR path .
.TP
.SM EFAULT
.I path
or
.I buf
extends outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
.SM ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.TP
.SM EINVAL
The named file is not a symbolic link.
.TP
.SM EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.TP
.SM ENAMETOOLONG
The length of the path argument exceeds
.SM {PATH_MAX}\s0.
.IP
A pathname component is longer than
.SM {NAME_MAX}
(see
.BR sysconf (2V))
while
.SM {_POSIX_NO_TRUNC}
is in effect
(see
.BR pathconf (2V)).
.TP
.SM ENOENT
The named file does not exist.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stat (2V),
.BR symlink (2)
