.\" @(#)reboot.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH REBOOT 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
reboot \- reboot system or halt processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/reboot.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.BR "reboot(howto, " [ " bootargs " ] " )"
.ft B
int howto;
char *bootargs;
.ft
.fi
.IX  reboot()  ""  "\fLreboot()\fP \(em halt processor"
.IX  "system operation support"  reboot()  ""  \fLreboot()\fP
.IX  "halt processor"
.IX  "stop processor"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B reboot(\|)
reboots the system, and is invoked automatically
in the event of unrecoverable system failures.
.I howto
is a mask of options passed to the bootstrap program.
The system call interface permits only
.SB RB_HALT
or
.SB RB_AUTOBOOT
to be passed to the reboot program; the other flags
are used in scripts stored on the console storage media, or used
in manual bootstrap procedures.
When none of these options (for instance
.SM
.BR RB_AUTOBOOT \s0)
is given, the system is rebooted
from file 
.B /vmunix
in the root file system of unit 0
of a disk chosen in a processor specific way.
An automatic consistency check of the disks is then normally performed.
.LP
The bits of
.I howto
are:
.TP 15
.SB RB_HALT
the processor is simply halted; no reboot takes place.
.SB RB_HALT
should be used with caution.
.TP
.SB RB_ASKNAME
Interpreted by the bootstrap program itself, causing it to
inquire as to what file should be booted.  Normally, the system is
booted from the file
.B /vmunix
without asking.
.TP
.SB RB_SINGLE
Normally, the reboot procedure involves an automatic disk consistency
check and then multi-user operations.
.SB RB_SINGLE
prevents the consistency
check, rather simply booting the system with a single-user shell on
the console.
.SB RB_SINGLE
is interpreted by the
.BR init (8)
program in the newly booted system.
.TP
.SB RB_DUMP
A system core dump is performed before rebooting.
.TP
.SB RB_STRING
The optional argument
.I bootargs
is passed to the bootstrap program.
See
.BR boot (8S)
for details.
This option overrides
.SB RB_SINGLE
but the same effect can be achieved by including
.B \-s
as an option in
.IR bootargs .
.LP
Only the super-user may
.B reboot(\|)
a machine.
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success,
.B reboot(\|)
does not return.
On failure,
it returns
\-1
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EPERM
The caller is not the super-user.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /vmunix
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR panic (8S),
.BR halt (8),
.BR init (8),
.BR intro (8),
.BR reboot (8)
