.\" @(#)select.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH SELECT 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
select \- synchronous I/O multiplexing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/time.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int select (width, readfds, writefds, exceptfds, timeout)
int width;
fd_set *readfds, *writefds, *exceptfds;
struct timeval *timeout;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
\s-1FD_SET\s0 (fd, &fdset)	
\s-1FD_CLR\s0 (fd, &fdset)	
\s-1FD_ISSET\s0 (fd, &fdset)	
\s-1FD_ZERO\s0 (&fdset)	
int fd;
fd_set fdset;
.fi
.ft
.IX  select()  ""  \fLselect()\fP
.IX  descriptors  select()  ""  \fLselect()\fP
.IX  "synchronous I/O multiplexing"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B select(\|)
examines the I/O descriptor sets whose addresses are passed in
.IR readfds ,
.IR writefds ,
and
.I exceptfds
to see if some of their descriptors
are ready for reading, ready for writing, or have an exceptional
condition pending.
.I width
is the number of bits to be checked in each bit mask that represent a file
descriptor;
the descriptors from 0 through
.IR width \-1
in the descriptor sets are examined.
Typically
.I width
has the value returned by
.BR ulimit (3C)
for the maximum number of file descriptors.
On return,
.B select(\|)
replaces the given descriptor sets
with subsets consisting of those descriptors that are ready
for the requested operation.
The total number of ready descriptors in all the sets is returned.
.LP
The descriptor sets are stored as bit fields in arrays of integers.
The following macros are provided for manipulating such descriptor sets:
.SB FD_ZERO
.RB ( &\fIfdset\fR )
initializes a descriptor set
.I fdset
to the null set.
.BI \s-1FD_SET\s0( fd,
.BI & fdset
) includes a particular
descriptor
.I fd
in
.IR fdset .
.BI \s-1FD_CLR\fP\s0( fd,
.BI & fdset\c
)
removes
.I fd
from
.IR fdset .
.BI \s-1FD_ISSET\fP\s0( fd,
.BI & fdset\c
) is nonzero
if
.I fd
is a member of
.IR fdset ,
zero otherwise.
The behavior of these macros is undefined if
a descriptor value is less than zero or greater than or equal to
.BR \s-1FD_SETSIZE\s0 ,
which is normally at least equal
to the maximum number of descriptors supported by the system.
.LP
If
.I timeout
is not a
.SM NULL
pointer, it specifies a maximum interval to wait for the
selection to complete.  If
.I timeout
is a
.SM NULL
pointer, the select blocks indefinitely.  To effect a poll, the
.I timeout
argument should be a non-\s-1NULL\s0 pointer, pointing to a zero-valued
.B timeval
structure.
.LP
Any of
.IR readfds ,
.IR writefds ,
and
.I exceptfds
may be given as
.SM NULL
pointers if no descriptors are of interest.
.LP
Selecting true for reading on a socket descriptor upon which a
.BR listen (2)
call has been performed indicates that a subsequent
.BR accept (2)
call on that descriptor will not block.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.B select(\|)
returns
a non-negative value
on success.
A positive value indicates
the number of ready descriptors in
the descriptor sets.
0 indicates
that the time limit referred to by
.I timeout
expired.
On failure,
.B select(\|)
returns
\-1,
sets
.B errno
to indicate the error, and the descriptor sets are not changed.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EBADF
One of the descriptor sets specified an invalid descriptor.
.TP
.SM EFAULT
One of the pointers given in the call referred to a non-existent portion
of the process' address space.
.TP
.SM EINTR
A signal was delivered before any of the selected
events occurred, or before the time limit expired.
.TP
.SM EINVAL
A component of the pointed-to time limit is outside the
acceptable range:
.B t_sec
must be between 0 and
.if t 10\u\s-38\s0\d,
.if n 10^8,
inclusive.  
.B t_usec
must be greater than or equal to 0, and less than
.if t 10\u\s-36\s0\d.
.if n 10^6.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR accept (2),
.BR connect (2),
.BR fcntl (2V),
.BR ulimit (3C),
.BR gettimeofday (2),
.BR listen (2),
.BR read (2V),
.BR recv (2),
.BR send (2),
.BR write (2V)
.SH NOTES
Under rare circumstances,
.B select(\|)
may indicate that a descriptor is ready for writing
when in fact an attempt to write would block.
This can happen if system resources necessary for a write are
exhausted or otherwise unavailable.
If an application deems it critical that writes to a file descriptor
not block, it should set the descriptor for non-blocking I/O
using the
.SB F_SETFL
request to
.BR fcntl (2V).
.SH BUGS
.LP
Although the provision of
.BR ulimit (3C)
was intended to allow user programs to be written independent
of the kernel limit on the number of open files, the dimension
of a sufficiently large bit field for select remains a problem.
The default size
.SB FD_SETSIZE
(currently 256) is somewhat larger than
the current kernel limit to the number of open files.
However, in order to accommodate programs which might potentially
use a larger number of open files with select, it is possible
to increase this size within a program by providing
a larger definition of
.SB FD_SETSIZE
before the inclusion of
.BR <sys/types.h> .
.LP
.B select(\|)
should probably return the time remaining from the original timeout,
if any, by modifying the time value in place.
This may be implemented in future versions of the system.
Thus, it is unwise to assume that the timeout pointer will be unmodified
by the
.B select(\|)
call.
