.\" @(#)setregid.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2 and S5R3
.TH SETREGID 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
setregid \- set real and effective group IDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int setregid(rgid, egid)
int rgid, egid;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  setregid()  ""  "\fLsetregid()\fP \(em set real and effective group ID"
.IX  "processes and protection"  setregid()  ""  \fLsetregid()\fP
.IX  "group ID"  "set real and effective" "" "set real and effective \(em \fLsetregid()\fP"
.IX  "real group ID"  set "" "set \(em \fLsetregid()\fP"
.IX  "effective group ID"  set "" "set \(em \fLsetregid()\fP"
.LP
.B setregid(\|)
is used to set the real and effective group
.SM ID\s0s
of the calling process.  If
.I rgid
is \-1, the real
.SM GID
is not changed; if
.I egid
is \-1, the effective
.SM GID
is not changed.  The real and effective
.SM GID\s0s
may be set to different values in the same call.
.LP
If the effective user
.SM ID
of the calling process is super-user,
the real
.SM GID
and the effective
.SM GID
can be set to any legal value.
.LP
If the effective user
.SM ID
of the calling process is not super-user,
either the real
.SM GID
can be set to the saved set\s-1GID\s0
from
.BR execve (2V),
or the effective
.SM GID
can either be set to the saved set\s-1GID\s0
or the real 
.SM GID\s0.
Note: if a set\s-1GID\s0 process sets its effective 
.SM GID
to its real
.SM GID\s0,
it can still set its effective
.SM GID
back to the saved set\s-1GID\s0.
.LP
In either case, if the real
.SM GID
is being changed (that is, if
.I rgid
is not \-1), or the effective
.SM GID
is being changed to a value not equal to the real 
.SM GID\s0,
the saved set\s-1GID\s0
is set equal to the new effective
.SM GID\s0.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B setregid(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
.B setregid(\|)
will fail and neither of the group
.SM ID\s0s
will be changed if:
.TP 15
.SM EINVAL
The value of
.I rgid
or
.I egid
is less than 0 or greater than
.SB USHRT_MAX
(defined in
.BR <sys/limits.h> ).
.TP
.SM EPERM
The calling process' effective
.SM UID
is not the super-user and a change
other than changing the real 
.SM GID
to the saved set\s-1GID\s0,
or changing the effective 
.SM GID
to the real
.SM GID
or the saved
.SM GID\s0,
was specified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR execve (2V),
.BR getgid (2V),
.BR setreuid (2),
.BR setuid (3V)
