.\" @(#)setreuid.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 and S5R3
.TH SETREUID 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
setreuid \- set real and effective user IDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
int setreuid(ruid, euid)
int ruid, euid;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  setreuid()  ""  \fLsetreuid()\fP
.IX  "processes and protection"  setreuid()  ""  \fLsetreuid()\fP
.IX  "user ID"  "set real and effective \(em \fLsetreuid()\fR"
.IX  "real user ID"  "set \(em \fLsetreuid()\fR"
.IX  "effective user ID"  "set \(em \fLsetreuid()\fR"
.LP
.B setreuid(\|)
is used to set the real and effective user
.SM ID\s0s
of the calling process.  If
.I ruid
is \-1, the real user
.SM ID
is not changed; if
.I euid
is \-1, the effective user
.SM ID
is not changed.
The real and effective user
.SM ID\s0s
may be set to different values
in the same call.
.LP
If the effective user
.SM ID
of the calling process is super-user,
the real user
.SM ID
and the effective user
.SM ID
can be set to any legal value.
.LP
If the effective user
.SM ID
of the calling process is not super-user,
either the real user
.SM ID
can be set to the effective user
.SM ID\s0,
or the effective user
.SM ID
can either be set to the saved set-user
.SM ID
from
.BR execve (2V)
or the real user
.SM ID\s0.
Note: if a set-\s-1UID\s0
process sets its effective user
.SM ID
to its real user
.SM ID\s0,
it can still set its effective user
.SM ID
back to the saved set-user
.SM ID\s0.
.LP
In either case, if the real user
.SM ID
is being changed (that is, if
.I ruid
is not \-1), or the effective user
.SM ID
is being changed to a value not equal to the real user
.SM ID\s0,
the saved set-user
.SM ID
is set equal to the new effective user
.SM ID\s0.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.B setreuid(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.B setreuid(\|)
will fail and neither of the user
.SM ID\s0s
will be changed if:
.TP 15
.SM EINVAL
The value of
.I ruid
or
.I euid
is less than 0 or greater than
.SB USHRT_MAX
(defined in
.BR <sys/limits.h> ).
.TP
.SM EPERM
The calling process' effective user
.SM ID
is not the super-user and a change
other than changing the real user
.SM ID
to the effective user
.SM ID\s0,
or changing the effective user
.SM ID
to the real user
.SM ID
or the saved set-user
.SM ID\s0,
was specified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR execve (2V),
.BR getuid (2V),
.BR setregid (2),
.BR setuid (3V)
