.\" @(#)shmop.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH SHMOP 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
shmop, shmat, shmdt \- shared memory operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ipc.h>
#include <sys/shm.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
char *shmat(shmid, shmaddr, shmflg)
int shmid;
char *shmaddr;
int shmflg;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int shmdt(shmaddr)
char *shmaddr;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  shmop()  ""  "\fLshmop()\fR \(em get shared memory operations"
.IX  "shared memory" "operation \(em\fLshmop()\fR"
.B shmat(\|)
maps the shared memory segment associated with the shared memory identifier
specified by
.I shmid
into the data segment of the calling process.  Upon successful completion,
the address of the mapped segment is returned.
.LP
The shared memory segment is mapped at the address specified
by one of the following criteria:
.TP 3
\(bu
If
.I shmaddr
is equal to zero, the segment is mapped at an address selected by the
system.  Ordinarily, applications should invoke
.B shmat(\|)
with
.I shmaddr
equal to zero so that the operating system may make the best
use of available resources.
.TP
\(bu
If
.I shmaddr
is not equal to zero and
.RI ( shmflg " &"
.SM
.BR SHM_RND \s0)
is ``true'', the segment is mapped at the address given by
.RI ( shmaddr " -"
.RI ( shmaddr " modulus"
.SM
.BR SHMLBA \s0)).
.TP
\(bu
If
.I shmaddr
is not equal to zero and
.RI ( shmflg " &"
.SM
.BR SHM_RND \s0)
is ``false'', the segment is mapped at the address given by
.IR shmaddr .
.LP
The segment is mapped for reading if
.RI ( shmflg " &"
.SM
.BR SHM_RDONLY \s0)
is ``true''
.BR \%[\s-1READ\s0] ,
otherwise it is mapped for reading and writing
.BR \%[\s-1READ\s0/\s-1WRITE\s0] 
(see
.BR shmctl (2)).
.LP
.B shmdt(\|)
unmaps from the calling process's address space
the shared memory segment that is mapped at the address specified by
.IR shmaddr .
The shared memory segment must have been mapped with a prior
.B shmat(\|)
function call.  The segment and contents are retained until explicitly
removed by means of the
.SB IPC_RMID
function (see
.BR shmctl (2)).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.On success,
.B shmat(\|)
returns
the data segment start address of the mapped shared memory segment.
On failure,
it returns
\-1
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.LP
.B shmdt(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.B shmat(\|)
will fail and not map the shared memory segment if one or more of the
following are true:
.TP 15
.SM EACCES
Operation permission is denied to the calling process (see
.BR intro (2)).
.TP
.SM EINVAL
.I shmid
is not a valid shared memory identifier.
.IP
.I shmaddr
is not equal to zero, and the value of
.RI ( shmaddr " -"
.RI ( shmaddr " modulus"
.SM
.BR SHMLBA \s0))
is an illegal address.
.IP
.I shmaddr
is not equal to zero,
.RI ( shmflg " &"
.SM
.BR SHM_RND \s0)
is ``false'', and the value of
.I shmaddr
is an illegal address.
.TP
.SM EMFILE
The number of shared memory segments mapped to the calling process would
exceed the system-imposed limit.
.TP
.SM ENOMEM
The available data space
is not large enough to accommodate the shared memory segment.
.LP
.B shmdt(\|)
will fail and not unmap the shared memory segment if:
.TP 15
.SM EINVAL
.I shmaddr
is not the data segment start address of a shared memory segment.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ipcrm (1),
.BR ipcs (1),
.BR intro (2),
.BR execve (2V),
.BR exit (2V),
.BR fork (2V),
.BR shmctl (2),
.BR shmget (2)
