.\" @(#)swapon.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH SWAPON 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
swapon \- add a swap device for interleaved paging/swapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
int swapon(special)
char *special;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "system operation support"  swapon()  ""  "\fLswapon()\fP \(em specify paging device"
.IX  swapon()  ""  "\fLswapon()\fP \(em specify paging device"
.IX  "paging device"  ""  "paging device \(em \fLswapon()\fP"
.IX  "swapping device"  ""  "swapping device \(em \fLswapon()\fP"
.IX  "specify paging/swapping device"  ""  "specify paging/swapping device \(em \fLswapon()\fP"
.LP
.B swapon(\|)
makes the block device
.I special
available to the system for
allocation for paging and swapping.  The names of potentially
available devices are known to the system and defined at system
configuration time.  The size of the swap area on
.I special
is calculated at the time the device is first made available for swapping.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B swapon(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 20
.SM EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of
.IR special .
.TP
.SM EBUSY
The device referred to by
.I special
has already been made available for swapping.
.TP
.SM EFAULT
.I special
points outside the process's address space.
.TP
.SM EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.IP
An I/O error occurred while
opening the swap device.
.TP
.SM ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR special .
.TP
.SM ENAMETOOLONG
The length of the path argument exceeds
.SM {PATH_MAX}\s0.
.IP
A pathname component is longer than
.SM {NAME_MAX}
(see
.BR sysconf (2V))
while
.SM {_POSIX_NO_TRUNC}
is in effect
(see
.BR pathconf (2V)).
.TP
.SM ENODEV
The device referred to by
.I special
was not configured into the system as a swap device.
.TP
.SM ENOENT
The device referred to by
.I special
does not exist.
.TP
.SM ENOTBLK
The file referred to by
.I special
is not a block device.
.TP
.SM ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix of
.I special
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM ENXIO
The major device number of the device referred to by
.I special
is out of range (this indicates no device driver exists
for the associated hardware).
.TP
.SM EPERM
The caller is not the super-user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fstab (5),
.BR config (8),
.BR swapon (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
There is no way to stop swapping on a disk so that the pack may be dismounted.
.LP
This call will be upgraded in future versions of the system.
