'\" t
.\"  @(#)sysconf.2v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new for 4.1, POSIX
.TH SYSCONF 2V "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
sysconf \- query system related limits, values, options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <unistd.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
long sysconf(name)
int name;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "sysconf()" "" "\fLsysconf()\fP \(em get configurable system variables" ""
.IX configure "system variables"
.IX variables "get configurable system variables"
.LP
The
.B sysconf(\|)
function provides a method for the
application to determine the current value of a configurable system
limit or option (variable).
The value does not change during the
lifetime of the calling process.
.\".LP
.\"Don's blurb about setrlimit()?
.LP
The convention used throughout sections 2 and 3 is that
.SM {LIMIT}
means that
.SM LIMIT
is something that
can change from system to system and applications that 
want accurate values need to call
.BR sysconf(\|) .
These values are things that have been historically available in
header files such as
.BR <sys/param.h> .
.LP
The following lists the conceptual name and meaning of each
variable.
.LP
.\" === troff version ===
.if n .ig IG
.RS
.TS
lI lI
l l .
Name	Meaning
_
\s-1{ARG_MAX}\s0	Max combined size of \fBargv[\|]\fP & \fBenvp[\|]\fR.
\s-1{CHILD_MAX}\s0	Max processes allowed to any \s-1UID\s0.
\s-1{CLK_TCK}\s0	Ticks per second (\fBclock_t\fR).
\s-1{NGROUPS_MAX}\s0	Max simultaneous groups one may belong to.
\s-1{OPEN_MAX}\s0	Max open files per process.
\s-1{_POSIX_JOB_CONTROL}\s0	Job control supported (boolean).
\s-1{_POSIX_SAVED_IDS}\s0	Saved ids (\fBseteuid(\|)\fR) supported (boolean).
\s-1{_POSIX_VERSION}\s0	Version of the \s-1POSIX.1\s0 standard supported.
.TE
.RE
.IG
.\" === end troff version ===
.\" === nroff version ===
.if t .ig IG
.RS
.TS
lI lI
l l .
Name	Meaning
\s-1{ARG_MAX}\s0	Max combined size of \fBargv[\|]\fP & \fBenvp[\|]\fR.
\s-1{CHILD_MAX}\s0	Max processes allowed to any \s-1UID\s0.
\s-1{CLK_TCK}\s0	Ticks per second (\fBclock_t\fR).
\s-1{NGROUPS_MAX}\s0	Max simultaneous groups one may 
	belong to.
\s-1{OPEN_MAX}\s0	Max open files per process.
\s-1{_POSIX_JOB_CONTROL}\s0	Job control supported (boolean).
\s-1{_POSIX_SAVED_IDS}\s0	Saved ids (\fBseteuid(\|)\fR) supported 
	(boolean).
\s-1{_POSIX_VERSION}\s0	Version of the \s-1POSIX.1\s0 standard 
	supported.
.TE
.RE
.IG
.\" === end nroff version ===
.LP
The following table lists the conceptual name of each variable
and the flag passed to
.B sysconf(\|)
to retrieve the value of each variable.
.LP
.RS
.TS
lI lI
l lB .
Name	Sysconf flag
_
\s-1{ARG_MAX}\s0	\s-1_SC_ARG_MAX\s0
\s-1{CHILD_MAX}\s0	\s-1_SC_CHILD_MAX\s0
\s-1{CLK_TCK}\s0	\s-1_SC_CLK_TCK\s0
\s-1{NGROUPS_MAX}\s0	\s-1_SC_NGROUPS_MAX\s0
\s-1{OPEN_MAX}\s0	\s-1_SC_OPEN_MAX\s0
\s-1{_POSIX_JOB_CONTROL}\s0	\s-1_SC_JOB_CONTROL\s0
\s-1{_POSIX_SAVED_IDS}\s0	\s-1_SC_SAVED_IDS\s0
\s-1{_POSIX_VERSION}\s0	\s-1_SC_VERSION\s0
.TE
.RE
.LP
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B sysconf(\|)
returns
the current variable value
on success.
On failure,
it returns
\-1
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EINVAL
The value of 
.I name 
is invalid.
.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\".BR getrlimit (2)
