.\" @(#)syscall.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH SYSCALL 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
syscall \- indirect system call
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/syscall.h>
.LP
.nf
.BR "int syscall(number" [ " , arg," " .\|.\|. ]" " )"
.ft B
int number;
.fi
.IX  syscall()  ""  "\fLsyscall()\fP \(em indirect system call"
.IX  "indirect system call"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B syscall(\|)
performs the system call whose assembly language
interface has the specified
.IR number ,
and arguments
.IR "arg \&.\|.\|." \&.
Symbolic constants for system calls can be found in the header file
.BR <sys/syscall.h> .
.\".LP
.\" Sun386i systems
.\"On Sun-3 systems, the value of register d0 after 
.\"the system call is returned.
.\"On Sun-4 systems, the value of register %o0 is returned.
.\"On Sun386i systems, the value of register %eax is returned.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B syscall(\|)
returns the return value of the system call specified by
.IR number .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR intro (2),
.BR pipe (2V)
.SH WARNINGS
There is no way to use
.B syscall(\|)
to call functions such as
.BR pipe (2V) ,
which return values that do not fit into one hardware register.
.LP
Since many system calls are implemented as library
wrappers around traps to the kernel,
these calls may not behave as documented when called from
.BR syscall(\|) ,
which bypasses these wrappers.
For these reasons, using
.B syscall(\|)
is not recommended.
.\"in register d1 
.\"on Sun-3 systems, in register %o1 on Sun-4 systems, or
.\"in register %edx on Sun386i systems.
