.\" @(#)truncate.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH TRUNCATE 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
truncate, ftruncate \- set a file to a specified length
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int truncate(path, length)
char *path;
off_t length;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int ftruncate(fd, length)
int fd;
off_t length;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.IX  truncate()  ""  "\fLtruncate()\fP \(em set file to specified length"
.IX  "file system"  truncate()  ""  \fLtruncate()\fP
.IX  ftruncate()  ""  \fLftruncate()\fP
.IX  "file system"  ftruncate()  ""  \fLftruncate()\fP
.B truncate(\|)
causes the file referred to by
.I path
(or for
.B ftruncate(\|)
the object referred to by
.IR fd )
to have a size equal to
.I length
bytes.  If the file was previously longer than
.IR length ,
the extra
bytes are removed from the file.  If it was shorter, bytes between the old
and new lengths are read as zeroes.
With
.BR ftruncate(\|) ,
the file must be open for writing.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B truncate(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
.B truncate(\|)
may set
.B errno
to:
.TP 20
.SM EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of
.IR path .
.IP
Write permission is denied for the file referred to by
.IR path .
.TP
.SM EFAULT
.I path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
.SM EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.TP
.SM EISDIR
The file referred to by
.I path
is a directory.
.TP
.SM ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.TP
.SM ENAMETOOLONG
The length of the path argument exceeds
.SM {PATH_MAX}\s0.
.IP
A pathname component is longer than
.SM {NAME_MAX}
(see
.BR sysconf (2V))
while
.SM {_POSIX_NO_TRUNC}
is in effect
(see
.BR pathconf (2V)).
.TP
.SM ENOENT
The file referred to by
.I path
does not exist.
.TP
.SM ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix of
.I path
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM EROFS
The file referred to by
.I path
resides on a read-only file system.
.LP
.B ftruncate(\|)
may set
.B errno
to:
.TP 20
.SM EINVAL
.I fd
is not a valid descriptor of a file open for writing.
.IP
.I fd
refers to a socket, not to a file.
.TP
.SM EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR open (2V)
.SH BUGS
.LP
These calls should be generalized to allow ranges of bytes in a file to be discarded.
