.\" @(#)uname.2v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH UNAME 2V "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
uname \- get information about current system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/utsname.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int uname (name)
struct utsname *name;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B uname(\|)
stores information identifying the current operating
system in the structure pointed to by
.IR name .
.LP
.B uname(\|)
uses the structure defined in
.BR <sys/utsname.h> ,
the members of which are:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
struct utsname {
.RS
.ft B
char	sysname[9];
char	nodename[9];
char	nodeext[65-9];
char	release[9];
char	version[9];
char	machine[9];
.RE
.ft B
}
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
.B uname(\|)
places a null-terminated character string naming the current
operating system in the character array
.IR sysname ;
this string is \(lqSunOS\(rq on Sun systems.
.I nodename
is set to the name that the system is known by on a communications
network; this is the same value as is returned by
.BR gethostname (2).
.I release
and
.I version
are set to values that further identify the operating system.
.I machine
is set to a standard name that identifies the hardware on which the SunOS
system is running.
This is the same as the value displayed by
.BR arch (1).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B uname(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure.
.\"and sets
.\".B errno
.\"to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR arch (1),
.BR uname (1),
.BR gethostname (2)
.SH NOTES
.LP
.I nodeext
is provided for backwards compatability with previous SunOS Releases
and provides space for node names longer than eight bytes.
Applications should not use
.IR nodeext .
To be maximally portable, applications that want to copy the node name
to another string should use
.B strlen(nodename)
rather than
the constant 9 or
.B sizeof(nodename)
as the size of the target string.
.LP
System administrators should note that systems with node names
longer than eight bytes do not conform to
.IR "\s-1IEEE\s0 Std 1003.1-1988" ,
.I "System V Interface Definition"
(Issue 2),
or
.I "X/Open Portability Guide"
(Issue 2)
requirements.
.\".LP
.\"In a future SunOS release
.\"the size of
.\"n.I nodename
.\"will increase and
.\".I nodeext
.\"will disappear.
