.\" @(#)unmount.2v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH UNMOUNT 2V "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
unmount, umount \- remove a file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int unmount(name)
char *name;
.ft
.fi
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int umount(special)
char *special;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.IX  unmount()  ""  "\fLunmount()\fP \(em demount file system"
.IX  "file system"  unmount()  ""  "\fLunmount()\fP \(em demount file system"
.IX  "file system"  demount()  ""  "\fLunmount()\fP \(em demount file system"
.IX  remove "file system \(em \fLunmount()\fP"
.IX  "demount file system unmount()"  ""  "demount file system \(em \fLunmount()\fP"
.LP
.B unmount(\|)
announces to the system that the directory
.I name
is no longer to refer to the root of a mounted file system.  The directory
.I name
reverts to its ordinary interpretation.
.LP
Only the super-user may call
.BR unmount(\|) .
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
.B umount(\|)
reqests that a previously mounted file system contained on the block
special device referred to by
.I special
be unmounted.
.I special
points to a path name.
After the file system is unmounted,
the directory on which it was mounted reverts to its ordinary interpretation.
.LP
Only the super-user may call
.BR umount(\|) .
.LP
Note:
Unlike the path name argument to
.B unmount(\|)
which refers to the directory on which the file system is mounted,
.I special
refers to the block special device containing the mounted file system
itself.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B unmount(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH SYSTEM V RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B umount(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 20
.SM EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP
.SM EBUSY
A process is holding a reference to a file located on the file system.
.TP
.SM EFAULT
.I name
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
.SM EINVAL
.I name
is not the root of a mounted file system.
.TP
.SM EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.TP
.SM ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the path name.
.TP
.SM ENAMETOOLONG
The length of the path argument exceeds
.SM {PATH_MAX}\s0.
.IP
A pathname component is longer than
.SM {NAME_MAX}
(see
.BR sysconf (2V))
while
.SM {_POSIX_NO_TRUNC}
is in effect
(see
.BR pathconf (2V)).
.TP
.SM ENOENT
.I name
does not exist.
.TP
.SM ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix of
.I name
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM EPERM
The caller is not the super-user.
.SH SYSTEM V ERRORS
.TP 20
.SM EINVAL
The device referred to by
.I special
is not mounted.
.TP
.SM ENOENT
The named file
does not exist.
.TP
.SM ENOTBLK
.I special
does not refer to a block special file.
.TP
.SM ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix of
.I special
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM ENXIO
The device referred to by
.I special
does not exist.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mount (2V),
.BR mount (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
The error codes are in a state of disarray; too many errors
appear to the caller as one value.
