.\" @(#)ustat.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH USTAT 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
ustat \- get file system statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <ustat.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int ustat(dev, buf)
dev_t dev;
struct ustat *buf;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "ustat() get" "" "\fLustat()\fP \(em get file system statistics" ""
.IX "file system" "get file system statistics"
.IX statistics "get file system statistics"
.LP
.B ustat(\|)
returns information about a mounted file system.
.I dev
is a device number identifying a device containing
a mounted file system.  This is normally the value returned in the
.B st_dev
field of a
.B stat
structure when a
.BR stat(\|) ,
.BR fstat(\|) ,
or
.B lstat(\|)
call is made on a file on that file system.
.I buf
is a pointer to a
.B ustat
structure that includes the following elements:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
.ta 8n 25n 30n
daddr_t	f_tfree;	/\(** Total blocks available to non-super-user \(**/
ino_t	f_tinode;	/\(** Number of free files \(**/
char	f_fname[6];	/\(** Filsys name \(**/
char	f_fpack[6];	/\(** Filsys pack name \(**/
.fi
.ft
.RE
.LP
The
.B f_fname
and
.B f_fpack
fields are always set to a null string.
Other fields that are undefined for a particular file system are set to \-1.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B ustat(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EFAULT
.I buf
points to an invalid address.
.TP
.SM EINVAL
.I dev
is not the device number of a device containing a mounted file system.
.TP
.SM EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR stat (2V),
.BR statfs (2)
.SH BUGS
.LP
The
.SM NFS
revision 2 protocol does not permit the number of free files to be provided to
the client; thus, when
.B ustat(\|)
is done on an
.SM NFS
file system,
.B f_tinode
is always \-1.
