.\" @(#)utimes.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH UTIMES 2 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
utimes \- set file times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int utimes(file, tvp)
char *file;
struct timeval *tvp;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  utimes()  ""  "\fLutimes()\fP \(em set file times"
.IX  "file system"  utimes()  ""  "\fLutimes()\fP \(em set file times"
.IX  "change" "file access times \(em \fLutimes()\fR"
.IX  "access times of file, change" "utimes" "" "\fLutimes()\fR"
.LP
.B utimes(\|)
sets the access and modification times of the file named by
.IR file .
.LP
If
.I tvp
is
.SM NULL\s0,
the access and modification times are set to the current time.  A
process must be the owner of the file or have write permission for
the file to use
.B utimes(\|)
in this manner.
.LP
If
.I tvp
is not
.SM NULL\s0,
it is assumed to point to an array of two
.B timeval
structures.  The access time is set to the value of the first member,
and the modification time is set to the value of the second member.
Only the owner of the file or the super-user may use
.B utimes(\|)
in this manner.
.LP
In either case, the
.I inode-changed
time of the file is set to the current time.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B utimes(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of
.IR file .
.TP
.SM EACCES
The effective user
.SM ID
of the process is not super-user and not the owner of the file, write
permission is denied for the file, and
.I tvp
is
.SM NULL\s0.
.TP
.SM EFAULT
.I file
or
.I tvp
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
.SM EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.TP
.SM ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR file .
.TP
.SM ENOENT
The file referred to by
.I file
does not exist.
.TP
.SM ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix of
.I file
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM EPERM
The effective user
.SM ID
of the process is not super-user and not the owner of the file, and
.I tvp
is not
.SM NULL\s0.
.TP
.SM EROFS
The file system containing the file is mounted read-only.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stat (2V)
