.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)alarm.3v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 6.3 5/27/86
.TH ALARM 3V  "6 October 1989"
.SH NAME
alarm \- schedule signal after specified time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B unsigned int alarm(seconds)
.B unsigned int seconds;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "alarm()"  ""  "\fLalarm()\fP \(em schedule signal"
.IX  "schedule signal"  ""  "schedule signal \(em \fLalarm()\fP"
.IX  signal  schedule  signal  "schedule \(em \fLalarm()\fP"
.LP
.B alarm(\|)
sends the signal
.B \s-1SIGALRM\s0
(see
.BR sigvec (2)),
to the invoking process after
.I seconds
seconds.
Unless caught or ignored, the signal terminates the process.
.LP
.B alarm(\|)
requests are not stacked;
successive calls reset the alarm clock.
If the argument is 0, any
.B alarm(\|)
request is canceled.
Because of scheduling delays,
resumption of execution of when the signal is
caught may be delayed an arbitrary amount.
The longest specifiable delay time is 2147483647 seconds.
.LP
The return value is the amount of time previously remaining
in the alarm clock.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sigpause (2V),
.BR sigvec (2),
.BR signal (3V),
.BR sleep (3V),
.BR ualarm (3),
.BR usleep (3)
.SH "WARNINGS"
.LP
.B alarm(\|)
is slightly incompatible with the
default version of
.BR sleep(3V).
The alarm signal is not sent when one would expect
for programs that wait one second of clock time between
successive calls to
.BR sleep(\|) .
Each 
.B sleep(\|)
call postpones the alarm signal
that would have been sent during the requested sleep period
for one second.
Use System V
.BR sleep (3V)
to avoid this delay.
