.\" @(#)catopen.3c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from XPG2
.TH CATOPEN 3C "22 January 1990"
.SH NAME
catopen, catclose \- open/close a message catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <nl_types.h>
.LP
.nf
.ft B
nl_catd catopen(name, oflag)
char *name;
int oflag;
.ft R
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int catclose(catd)
nl_catd catd;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "catopen" "" "\fLcatopen\fR \(em open a message catalog" ""
.IX "catclose" "" "\fLcatclose\fR \(em close a message catalog" ""
.LP 
.B catopen(\|) 
opens a message catalog and returns a catalog descriptor.
.I name 
specifies the name of the message catalog to be opened.
If
.I name 
contains a
.RB ` / '
then 
.I name 
specifies a pathname for the message catalog.
Otherwise, the environment variable
.SB NLSPATH 
is used with
.I name 
substituted for 
.B %N
(see
.BR locale (5)).
If
.SB NLSPATH 
does not exist in the environment,
or if a message catalog cannot be opened
in any of the paths specified by
.BR \s-1NLSPATH\s0 ,
the 
.BI /etc/locale/\s-1LC_MESSAGES\s+1/ locale
directory is searched for a message catalog with filename
.IR name ,
followed by the 
.BI /usr/share/lib/locale/\s-1LC_MESSAGES\s+1/ locale
directory. In both cases
.I locale
stands for the current setting of the 
.B \s-1LC_MESSAGES\s+1
category of locale.
.LP
.I oflag 
is reserved for future use and should be set to 0 (zero).
The results of setting this field to any other value
are undefined.
.LP
.B catclose(\|) 
closes the message catalog identified by
.IR catd .
It invalidates any following references to the message catalog defined
by
.IR catd .
.LP
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B catopen(\|)
returns
a message catalog descriptor
on success.
On failure,
it returns
\-1.
.\"and sets
.\".B errno
.\"to indicate the error.
.LP
.B catclose(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure.
.\"and sets
.\".B errno
.\"to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR catgets (3C),
.BR locale (5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
Using
.B catopen(\|)
and
.B catclose(\|)
in conjunction with
.B gettext(\|) 
or 
.B textdomain(\|) 
(see
.BR gettext (3))
is undefined.
