.\" @(#)exportent.3 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH EXPORTENT 3 "4 January 1987"
.SH NAME
exportent, getexportent, setexportent, addexportent, remexportent, endexportent, getexportopt \- get exported file system information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <stdio.h>
#include <exportent.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
\s-1FILE\s0 *setexportent(\|)
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct exportent *getexportent(filep)
\s-1FILE\s0 *filep;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int addexportent(filep, dirname, options)
\s-1FILE\s0 *filep;
char *dirname;
char *options;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int remexportent(filep, dirname)
\s-1FILE\s0 *filep;
char *dirname;
.ft
.ft
.LP
.nf
.ft B
char *getexportopt(xent, opt)
struct exportent *xent;
char *opt;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
void endexportent(filep)
\s-1FILE\s0 *filep;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "exportent()" "" "\fLexportent()\fP function"
.IX "getexportent()" "" "\fLgetexportent()\fP function"
.IX "setexportent()" "" "\fLsetexportent()\fP function"
.IX "addexportent()" "" "\fLaddexportent()\fP function"
.IX "remexportent()" "" "\fLremexportent()\fP function"
.IX "endexportent()" "" "\fLendexportent()\fP function"
.IX "getexportopt()" "" "\fLgetexportopt()\fP function"
.LP
These routines access the exported filesystem information in
.BR /etc/xtab .
.LP
.B setexportent(\|)
opens the export information file and returns
a file pointer to use with
.BR getexportent ,
.BR addexportent ,
.BR remexportent ,
and
.BR endexportent .
.B getexportent(\|)
reads the next line from
.I filep
and returns a pointer to an object with the following structure
containing the broken-out fields of a line in the file,
.B /etc/xtab
The fields have meanings described in
.BR exports (5).
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
#define \s-1ACCESS_OPT\s0  "access"  /* machines that can mount fs */
#define \s-1ROOT_OPT\s0    "root"    /* machines with root access of fs */
#define \s-1RO_OPT\s0      "ro"      /* export read-only */
#define \s-1ANON_OPT\s0    "anon"    /* uid for anonymous requests */
#define \s-1SECURE_OPT\s0  "secure"  /* require secure NFS for access */
#define \s-1WINDOW_OPT\s0  "window"  /* expiration window for credential */
.sp
struct exportent {
	char *xent_dirname;	/* directory (or file) to export */
	char *xent_options;	/* options, as above */
};
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
.B addexportent(\|)
adds the
.B exportent(\|)
to the end of the open file
.IR filep .
It returns 0 if successful and  \-1 on failure.
.B remexportent(\|)
removes the indicated entry from the list.  It also returns 0 on
success and \-1 on failure.
.B getexportopt(\|)
scans the
.I xent_options
field of the
.B exportent(\|)
structure for a substring that matches
.IR opt .
It returns the string value of
.IR opt ,
or
.SM NULL
if the option is not found.
.LP
.B endexportent(\|)
closes the file.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/exports
.TP
.B /etc/xtab
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exports (5),
.BR exportfs (8)
.br
.ne 5
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
.SM NULL
pointer (0) returned on
.SM EOF
or error.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The returned
.B exportent(\|)
structure points to static information that is overwritten in each call.
