.\" @(#)ferror.3v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2
.TH FERROR 3V  "5 October 1989"
.SH NAME
ferror, feof, clearerr, fileno \- stream status inquiries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.LP
.B ferror(stream)
.B \s-1FILE\s0 *stream;
.LP
.B feof(stream)
.B \s-1FILE\s0 *stream;
.LP
.B clearerr(stream)
.B \s-1FILE\s0 *stream;
.LP
.B fileno(stream)
.B \s-1FILE\s0 *stream;
.fi
.IX  "ferror()"  ""  "\fLferror()\fP \(em inquire error on stream"
.IX  "stream status enquiries"  "ferror()"  ""  "\fLferror()\fP \(em inquire error on stream"
.IX  "enquire stream status"  "ferror()"  ""  "\fLferror()\fP \(em inquire error on stream"
.IX  "inquire stream status"  "ferror()"  ""  "\fLferror()\fP \(em inquire error on stream"
.IX  "feof()"  ""  "\fLfeof()\fP \(em enquire EOF on stream"
.IX  "stream status enquiries"  "feof()"  ""  "\fLfeof()\fP \(em enquire EOF on stream"
.IX  "enquire stream status"  "feof()"  ""  "\fLfeof()\fP \(em enquire EOF on stream"
.IX  "inquire stream status"  "feof()"  ""  "\fLfeof()\fP \(em enquire EOF on stream"
.IX  "clearerr()"  ""  "\fLclearerr()\fP \(em clear error on stream"
.IX  "stream status enquiries"  "clearerr()"  ""  "\fLclearerr()\fP \(em clear error on stream"
.IX  "enquire stream status"  "clearerr()"  ""  "\fLclearerr()\fP \(em clear error on stream"
.IX  "inquire stream status"  "clearerr()"  ""  "\fLclearerr()\fP \(em clear error on stream"
.IX  "fileno()"  ""  "\fLfileno()\fP \(em get stream descriptor number"
.IX  "stream status enquiries"  "fileno()"  ""  "\fLfileno()\fP \(em get stream descriptor number"
.IX  "enquire stream status"  "fileno()"  ""  "\fLfileno()\fP \(em get stream descriptor number"
.IX  "inquire stream status"  "fileno()"  ""  "\fLfileno()\fP \(em get stream descriptor number"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B ferror(\|)
returns non-zero when an error has occurred reading from or writing to
the named stream,
otherwise zero.  Unless cleared by
.BR clearerr(\|) ,
the error indication lasts until the stream is closed.
.LP
.B feof(\|)
returns non-zero when
.SM EOF
has previously been detected reading the named input
stream,
otherwise zero.  Unless cleared by
.BR clearerr(\|) ,
the
.SM EOF
indication lasts until the stream is closed.
.LP
.B clearerr(\|)
resets the error indication and
.SM EOF
indication to zero on the named
stream.
.LP
.B fileno(\|)
returns the integer file descriptor associated with the
stream
(see
.BR open (2V)).
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
.B feof(\|)
returns non-zero when
.SM EOF
has previously been detected reading the named input
stream,
otherwise zero.  Unless cleared by
.BR clearerr(\|) ,
the
.SM EOF
indication lasts until the stream is closed,
however, operations which attempt to read from the stream will ignore
the current state of the
.SM EOF
indication and attempt to read from the file descriptor associated
with the stream.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR open (2V),
.BR fopen (3V)
.SH NOTES
These functions are defined in the C library and are also defined as macros in
.BR <stdio.h> .
