.\" @(#)fseek.3s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD and S5
.TH FSEEK 3S  "6 October 1987"
.SH NAME
fseek, ftell, rewind \- reposition a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.LP
.B fseek(stream, offset, ptrname)
.B \s-1FILE\s0 *stream;
.B long offset;
.LP
.B long ftell(stream)
.B \s-1FILE\s0 *stream;
.LP
.B rewind(stream)
.B \s-1FILE\s0 *stream;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "fseek()"  ""  "\fLfseek()\fP \(em seek on stream"
.IX  "seek on stream"  "" "seek on stream \(em \fLfseek()\fP"
.IX  stream  seek  stream  "seek \(em \fLfseek()\fP"
.IX  "ftell()"  ""  "\fLftell()\fP \(em get stream position"
.IX  get "position of stream \(em \fLftell()\fP"
.IX  stream  "get position of"  stream  "get position of \(em \fLftell()\fP"
.IX  "rewind()"  ""  "\fLrewind()\fP \(em rewind stream"
.IX  "rewind stream"  ""  "rewind stream \(em \fLrewind()\fP"
.IX  stream  rewind  stream  "rewind \(em \fLrewind()\fP"
.IX  stream  reposition  stream  "reposition \(em \fLrewind()\fP"
.IX  "reposition stream"  fseek()  ""  \fLfseek()\fP
.IX  "reposition stream"  ftell()  ""  \fLftell()\fP
.IX  "reposition stream"  rewind()  ""  \fLrewind()\fP
.LP
.B fseek(\|)
sets the position of the next input or output operation on the stream.
The new position is at the signed distance
.I offset
bytes from the beginning, the current position, or the end of the file,
according as
.I ptrname
has the value 0, 1, or 2.
.LP
.BI rewind( stream )
is equivalent to
.BI fseek( stream\fR,
0L, 0), except that no value is returned.
.LP
.B fseek(\|)
and
.B rewind(\|)
undo any effects of
.BR ungetc (3S).
.LP
After
.B fseek(\|)
or
.BR rewind(\|) ,
the next operation on a file opened for update
may be either input or output.
.LP
.B ftell(\|)
returns the offset of the current byte relative to the beginning
of the file associated with the named stream.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lseek (2V),
.BR fopen (3V),
.BR popen (3S),
.BR ungetc (3S)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
.B fseek(\|)
returns \-1 for improper seeks, otherwise zero.
An improper seek can be, for example, an
.B fseek(\|)
done on a file associated with a non-seekable device,
such as a tty or a pipe; in particular,
.B fseek(\|)
may not be used on a terminal, or on a file opened using
.BR popen (3S).
.SH WARNING
.LP
Although on the
.SM UNIX
system an offset returned by
.B ftell(\|)
is measured in bytes, and it is permissible to seek to positions
relative to that offset,
portability to a (non-\s-1UNIX\s0) system requires that
an offset be used by
.B fseek(\|)
directly.
Arithmetic may not meaningfully be performed on such
an offset, which is not necessarily measured in bytes.
