.\" @(#)getcwd.3v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2
.TH GETCWD 3V "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
getcwd \- get pathname of current working directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
char *getcwd(buf, size)
char *buf;
int size;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX get "pathname of current working directory \(em \fLgetcwd()\fR"
.IX "getcwd function" "" "\fLgetcwd()\fR \(em get pathname of current directory"
.IX "current working directory getcwd()" "" "current working directory \(em \fLgetcwd()\fR"
.LP
.B getcwd(\|)
returns a pointer to the current directory pathname.
The value of
.I size
must be at least two greater than the length of the
pathname to be returned.
.LP
If
.I buf
is a
.SM NULL
pointer,
.B getcwd(\|)
will obtain
.I size
bytes of space using
.BR malloc (3V).
In this case, the pointer returned by
.B getcwd(\|)
may be used as the argument in a subsequent call to
.BR free(\|) .
.LP
The function is implemented by using
.BR popen (3S)
to pipe the output of the
.BR pwd (1)
command into the specified string space.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B getcwd(\|)
returns a pointer to the current directory pathname
on success.
If
.I size
is not large enough, or if an error occurs
in a lower-level function,
.B getcwd(\|)
returns
.SM NULL
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EINVAL
.I size
is less than or equal to zero.
.TP
.SM ERANGE
.I size
is greater than zero, but is smaller than the length of the pathname plus 1.
.LP
If the following condition is detected,
.B getcwd(\|)
sets
.B errno
to:
.TP 15
.SM EACCES
Read or search permission is denied for a component of the pathname.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.nf
.ft B
char *cwd, *getcwd(\|);
\&.
\&.
\&.
if ((cwd = getcwd((char *)\s-1NULL\s0, 64)) == \s-1NULL\s0) {
.RS
.ft B
perror ("pwd");
exit (1);
.RE
.ft B
}
printf("%s\en", cwd);
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pwd (1),
.BR getwd (3),
.BR malloc (3V),
.BR popen (3S)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Since this function uses
.B popen(\|)
to create a pipe to the
.B pwd
command, it is slower than
.B getwd(\|)
and gives poorer error diagnostics.
.B getcwd(\|)
is provided only for compatibility with other
.SM UNIX
operating systems.
