.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)getfsent.3 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 6.3 5/12/86
.TH GETFSENT 3  "6 October 1987"
.SH NAME
getfsent, getfsspec, getfsfile, getfstype, setfsent, endfsent \- get file system descriptor file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fstab.h>
.LP
.B struct fstab *getfsent(\|)
.LP
.B struct fstab *getfsspec(spec)
.B char *spec;
.LP
.B struct fstab *getfsfile(file)
.B char *file;
.LP
.B struct fstab *getfstype(type)
.B char *type;
.LP
.B int setfsent(\|)
.LP
.B int endfsent(\|)
.fi
.IX  "getfsent()"  ""  "\fLgetfsent()\fP \(em get file system descriptor file entry"
.IX  "getfsspec()"  ""  "\fLgetfsspec()\fP \(em get file system descriptor file entry"
.IX  "getfsfile()"  ""  "\fLgetfsfile()\fP \(em get file system descriptor file entry"
.IX  "getfstype()"  ""  "\fLgetfstype()\fP \(em get file system descriptor file entry"
.IX  "setfsent()"  ""  "\fLsetfsent()\fP \(em get file system descriptor file entry"
.IX  "endfsent()"  ""  "\fLendfsent()\fP \(em get file system descriptor file entry"
.IX  "file system"  "get file descriptor entry"
.IX  get "file system descriptor file entry"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These routines are included for compatibility with 4.2
.SM BSD\s0;
they have been superseded by the
.BR getmntent (3)
library routines.
.LP
.BR getfsent ,
.IR getfsspec ,
.IR getfstype ,
and
.I getfsfile
each return a pointer to an object with the following structure
containing the broken-out fields of a line in the file system description file,
.RB < fstab.h >.
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
.ft B
struct fstab {
	char	*fs_spec;
	char	*fs_file;
	char	*fs_type;
	int	fs_freq;
	int	fs_passno;
};
.ft R
.ad
.fi
.RE
.LP
The fields have meanings described in
.BR fstab (5).
.LP
.B getfsent(\|)
reads the next line of the file, opening the file if necessary.
.LP
.B getfsent(\|)
opens and rewinds the file.
.LP
.I endfsent
closes the file.
.LP
.I getfsspec
and
.I getfsfile
sequentially search from the beginning of the file until a matching
special file name or file system file name is found,
or until
.SM EOF
is encountered.
.I getfstype
does likewise, matching on the file system type field.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/fstab
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fstab (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Null pointer
(0) returned on
.SM EOF
or error.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The return value points to static information which is overwritten
in each call.
