.\" @(#)getgraent.3 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH GETGRAENT 3 "7 September 1988"
.SH NAME
getgraent, getgranam, setgraent, endgraent, fgetgraent \- get group adjunct file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <stdio.h>
#include <grpadj.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct group_adjunct *getgraent(\|)
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct group_adjunct *getgranam(name)
char *name;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct group_adjunct *fgetgraent(f)
FILE *f;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
void setgraent(\|)
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
void endgraent(\|)
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "getgraent()" "" "\fLgetgraent()\fP function"
.IX "getgranam()" "" "\fLgetgranam()\fP function"
.IX "setgraent()" "" "\fLsetgraent()\fP function"
.IX "endgraent()" "" "\fLendgraent()\fP function"
.IX "fgetgraent()" "" "\fLfgetgraent()\fP function"
.LP
.B getgraent(\|)
and
.B getgranam(\|)
each return pointers to an object
with the following structure containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the group adjunct file.
Each line contains a
.B group_adjunct
structure, defined in the
.B <grpadj.h>
header file.
.RS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct  group_adjunct {
.ft
.RS
.ft B
char    *gra_name;	/* the name of the group */
char    *gra_passwd;	/* the encrypted group password */
.ft
.RE
.ft B
};
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
When first called,
.B getgraent(\|)
returns a pointer to a
.B group_adjunct
structure corresponding to the first line in the file.
Thereafter, it returns a pointer to the next
.B group_adjunct
structure in the file.
So successive calls may be used to traverse the entire file.
.LP
For locating a particular group,
.B getgranam(\|)
searches through the file until it finds group
.IR filename ,
then returns a pointer to that structure.
.LP
A call to
.B getgraent(\|)
rewinds the group adjunct file to allow repeated searches.
A call to
.B endgraent(\|)
closes the group adjunct file when processing is complete.
.LP
Because read access is required on
.B /etc/security/group.adjunct,
.B getgraent(\|)
and
.B getgranam(\|)
will fail unless the calling process has effective UID of root.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/security/group.adjunct
.TP
.BI /var/yp/ domainname /group.adjunct
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getlogin (3V),
.BR getgrent(3V),
.BR getpwaent(3),
.BR getpwent(3V),
.BR ypserv(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
A
.SM NULL
pointer is returned on end-of-file or error.
.SH BUGS
.LP
All information is contained in a static area,
so it must be copied if it is to be saved.
