.\" @(#)getgrent.3v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 and S5
.\" TODO
.TH GETGRENT 3V "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
getgrent, getgrgid, getgrnam, setgrent, endgrent, fgetgrent \- get group file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <grp.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct group *getgrent(\|)
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct group *getgrgid(gid)
int gid;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct group *getgrnam(name)
char *name;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
void setgrent(\|)
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
void endgrent(\|)
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct group *fgetgrent(f)
\s-1FILE\s0 *f;
.ft
.fi
.IX  "getgrent()"  ""  "\fLgetgrent()\fP \(em get group file entry"
.IX  "getgrgid()"  ""  "\fLgetgrgid()\fP \(em get group file entry"
.IX  "getgrnam()"  ""  "\fLgetgrnam()\fP \(em get group file entry"
.IX  "setgrent()"  ""  "\fLsetgrent()\fP \(em get group file entry"
.IX  "endgrent()"  ""  "\fLendgrent()\fP \(em get group file entry"
.IX  "fgetgrent()"  ""  "\fLfgetgrent()\fP \(em get group file entry"
.IX  "get group file entry"  "getgrent()"  ""  "\fLgetgrent()\fP"
.IX  "get group file entry"  "getgrgid()"  ""  "\fLgetgrgid()\fP"
.IX  "get group file entry"  "getgrnam()"  ""  "\fLgetgrnam()\fP"
.IX  "get group file entry"  "setgrent()"  ""  "\fLsetgrent()\fP"
.IX  "get group file entry"  "endgrent()"  ""  "\fLendgrent()\fP"
.IX  "get group file entry"  "fgetgrent()"  ""  "\fLfgetgrent()\fP"
.IX  "group file entry \(em \fLgetgrent()\fR"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.BR getgrent(\|) ,
.B getgrgid(\|)
and
.B getgrnam(\|)
each return pointers to an object
with the following structure containing the
fields of a line in the group file.
Each line contains a \*(lqgroup\*(rq structure, defined in
.BR <grp.h> .
.RS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct	group {
	char	*gr_name;	/* name of the group */
	char	*gr_passwd;	/* encrypted password of the group */
	gid_t	gr_gid;		/* numerical group \s-1ID\s0 */
	char	**gr_mem;	/* null-terminated array of pointers to the
					individual member names */
};
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
.B getgrent(\|)
when first called returns a pointer to the first group structure in the file;
thereafter, it returns a pointer to the next group structure in the file;
so, successive calls may be
used to search the entire file.
.B getgrgid(\|)
searches from the beginning of the file until a numerical group
.SM ID
matching
.B gid
is found and returns a pointer to the particular structure in which
it was found.
.B getgrnam(\|)
searches from the beginning of the file until a group name matching
.I name
is found and returns a
pointer to the particular structure in which it was found.
If an end-of-file or an error
is encountered on reading, these functions return a
.SM NULL
pointer.
.LP
A call to
.B setgrent(\|)
has the effect of rewinding the group file to allow
repeated searches.
.B endgrent(\|)
may be called to
close the group file
when processing is complete.
.LP
.B fgetgrent(\|)
returns a pointer to the next group structure in the stream
.IR f ,
which must refer to an open file in the same format as the group file
.BR /etc/group .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.BR getgrent(\|) ,
.BR getgrgid(\|) ,
and
.B getgrnam(\|)
return a
pointer to
.B struct group
on success.
On
.SM EOF
or error,
they return
.SM NULL\s0.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/group
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /group.byname
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /group.bygid
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getlogin (3V),
.BR getpwent (3V),
.BR group (5),
.BR ypserv (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
All information is contained in a static area, so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.
.LP
Unlike the corresponding routines for passwords (see
.BR getpwent (3v)),
which always search the entire file, these routines start
searching from the current file location.
.SH WARNING
.LP
The above routines use
the standard I/O library,
which increases the size of programs
not otherwise using standard I/O more
than might be expected.
