.\" @(#)gethostent.3n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2 BSD
.TH GETHOSTENT 3N "7 September 1988"
.SH NAME
gethostent, gethostbyaddr, gethostbyname, sethostent, endhostent \- get network host entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/socket.h>
#include <netdb.h>
.LP
.ft B
struct hostent *gethostent(\|)
.LP
.ft B
struct hostent *gethostbyname(name)
char *name;
.LP
.ft B
struct hostent *gethostbyaddr(addr, len, type)
char *addr;
int len, type;
.LP
.ft B
sethostent(stayopen)
int stayopen
endhostent(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.IX  get "network host entry \(em \fLgethostent()\fR"
.IX  "network host entry, get \(em \fLgethostent()\fR"
.IX  host "get network entry \(em \fLgethostent()\fR"
.IX  "gethostent()"  ""  "\fLgethostent()\fP \(em get network host entry"
.IX  "gethostbyaddr()"  ""  "\fLgethostbyaddr()\fP \(em get network host entry"
.IX  "gethostbyname()"  ""  "\fLgethostbyname()\fP \(em get network host entry"
.IX  "sethostent()"  ""  "\fLsethostent()\fP \(em get network host entry"
.IX  "endhostent()"  ""  "\fLendhostent()\fP \(em get network host entry"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.BR gethostent ,
.BR gethostbyname ,
and
.B gethostbyaddr(\|)
each return a pointer to an object with the
following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the network host data base,
.BR /etc/hosts .
In the case of
.BR gethostbyaddr(\|) ,
.I addr
is a pointer to the binary format address of
length
.I len
(not a character string).
.RS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct	hostent {
	char	*h_name;	/* official name of host */
	char	**h_aliases;	/* alias list */
	int	h_addrtype;	/* address type */
	int	h_length;	/* length of address */
	char	**h_addr_list;	/* list of addresses from name server */
};
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
The members of this structure are:
.TP 20
.B h_name
Official name of the host.
.TP
.B h_aliases
A zero terminated array of alternate names for the host.
.TP
.B h_addrtype
The type of address being returned; currently always
.BR \s-1AF_INET\s0.
.TP
.B h_length
The length, in bytes, of the address.
.TP
.B h_addr_list
A pointer to a list of network addresses for the named host.
Host addresses are returned in network byte order.
.LP
.B gethostent(\|)
reads the next line of the file, opening the file if necessary.
.LP
.B sethostent(\|)
opens and rewinds the file.  If the
.I stayopen
flag is non-zero,
the host data base will not be closed after each call to
.B gethostent(\|)
(either directly, or indirectly through one of the other
\*(lqgethost\*(rq calls).
.LP
.B endhostent(\|)
closes the file.
.LP
.B gethostbyname(\|)
and
.B gethostbyaddr(\|)
sequentially search from the beginning
of the file until a matching
host name or host address is found,
or until end-of-file is encountered.
Host addresses are supplied in network order.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/hosts
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /hosts.byname
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /hosts.byaddr
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR hosts (5),
.BR ypserv (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A
.SM NULL
pointer is returned on end-of-file or error.
.SH BUGS
All information
is contained in a static area
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.  Only the Internet
address format is currently understood.
