.\" @(#)getmntent.3 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH GETMNTENT 3 "26 February 1988"
.SH NAME
getmntent, setmntent, addmntent, endmntent, hasmntopt \- get file system descriptor file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <stdio.h>
#include <mntent.h>
.sp.5
\s-1FILE\s0 *setmntent(filep, type)
char *filep;
char *type;
.sp.5
struct mntent *getmntent(filep)
\s-1FILE\s0 *filep;
.sp.5
int addmntent(filep, mnt)
\s-1FILE\s0 *filep;
struct mntent *mnt;
.sp.5
char *hasmntopt(mnt, opt)
struct mntent *mnt;
char *opt;
.sp.5
int endmntent(filep)
\s-1FILE\s0 *filep;
.fi
.IX  "setmntent()"  ""  "\fLsetmntent()\fP \(em open a file system description file"
.IX  "getmntent()"  ""  "\fLgetmntent()\fP \(em read a file system description file entry"
.IX  "addmntent()"  ""  "\fLaddmntent()\fP \(em add a file system description file entry"
.IX  "endmntent()"  ""  "\fLendmntent()\fP \(em close a file system description file"
.IX  "hasmntopt()"  ""  "\fLhasmntopt()\fP \(em search a file system description file entry for an option"
.IX  "file system description file open"  "setmntent()"  ""  "\fLsetmntent()\fP"
.IX  "file system description file entry read"  "getmntent()"  ""  "\fLgetmntent()\fP"
.IX  "file system description file entry add"  "addmntent()"  ""  "\fLaddmntent()\fP"
.IX  "file system description file close"  "endmntent()"  ""  "\fLendmntent()\fP"
.IX  "file system description file entry option search"  "hasmntopt()"  ""  "\fLhasmntopt()\fP"
.IX  "file system description file, manipulate"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These routines replace the
.B getfsent(\|)
routines for accessing the file system description file
.BR /etc/fstab .
They are also used to access the mounted file system description file
.BR /etc/mtab .
.LP
.B setmntent(\|)
opens a file system description file and returns
a file pointer which can then be used with
.BR getmntent ,
.BR addmntent ,
or
.BR endmntent .
The
.I type
argument is the same as in
.BR fopen (3V).
.B getmntent(\|)
reads the next line from
.I filep
and returns a pointer to an object with the following structure
containing the broken-out fields of a line in the file system description file,
.BR <mntent.h> .
On failure,
.B getmntent(\|)
returns the
.SM NULL
pointer.
The fields have meanings described in
.BR fstab (5).
.RS
.LP
.ta \w'#define'u +\w'char\0\0'u +\w'*mnt_fsname;\0\0'u
.nf
.ft B
struct	mntent{
	char	*mnt_fsname;		/* name of mounted file system */
	char	*mnt_dir;		/* file system path prefix */
	char	*mnt_type;		/* \s-1MNTTYPE\s0_* */
	char	*mnt_opts;		/* \s-1MNTOPT\s0* */
	int	mnt_freq;		/* dump frequency, in days */
	int	mnt_passno;		/* pass number on parallel fsck */
};
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
.B addmntent(\|)
adds the
.B mntent
structure
.I mnt
to the end of the open file
.IR filep .
.B addmntent( )
returns 0 on success, 1 on failure.
Note: 
.I filep
has to be opened for writing if this is to work.
.B hasmntopt(\|)
scans the
.B mnt_opts
field of the
.B mntent
structure
.I mnt
for a substring that matches
.IR opt .
It returns the address of the substring if a match is found,
0 otherwise.
.B endmntent( )
closes the file.  It always returns 1, so should be treated as type
.B void.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/fstab
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fopen (3V),
.BR getfsent (3),
.BR fstab (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
.SM NULL
pointer (0) returned on
.SM EOF
or error.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The returned
.B mntent
structure points to static information that is overwritten in each call.
.\" This is meaningless.  What is it supposed to say?
