.\" @(#)getnetgrent.3n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH GETNETGRENT 3N "14 December 1987"
.SH NAME
getnetgrent, setnetgrent, endnetgrent, innetgr \- get network group entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
getnetgrent(machinep, userp, domainp)
char **machinep, **userp, **domainp;
.ft R
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
setnetgrent(netgroup)
char *netgroup
.ft R
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
endnetgrent(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
innetgr(netgroup, machine, user, domain)
char *netgroup, *machine, *user, *domain;
.ft R
.fi
.IX  get "network group entry \(em \fLgetnetgrent()\fR"
.IX  set "network group entry \(em \fLsetnetgrent()\fR"
.IX  "network group entry, get \(em \fLgetnetgrent()\fR"
.IX  "group entry, network \(em \fLgetnetgrent()\fR"
.IX  "getnetgrent()"  ""  "\fLgetnetgrent()\fP \(em get network group entry"
.IX  "setnetgrent()"  ""  "\fLsetnetgrent()\fP \(em get network group entry"
.IX  "endnetgrent()"  ""  "\fLendnetgrent()\fP \(em get network group entry"
.IX  "innetgr()"  ""  "\fLinnetgr()\fP \(em get network group entry"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B getnetgrent(\|)
returns the next member of a network group.
After the call,
.I machinep
will contain a pointer to a string containing the name
of the machine part of the network group member, and similarly for
.I userp
and
.IR domainp .
If any of
.IR machinep ,
.I userp
or
.I domainp
is returned as a
.SM NULL
pointer, it signifies a wild card.
.B getnetgrent(\|)
will use
.BR malloc (3V)
to allocate space for the name.
This space is released when a
.B endnetgrent(\|)
call is made.
.B getnetgrent(\|)
returns 1 if it succeeded in obtaining another
member of the network group, 0 if it has reached the
end of the group.  
.LP
.B getnetgrent(\|)
establishes the network group from which
.B getnetgrent(\|)
will obtain members, and also restarts calls to
.B getnetgrent(\|)
from the beginning of the list.
If the previous
.B setnetgrent(\|)
call was to a different network group, a
.B endnetgrent(\|)
call is implied.
.B endnetgrent(\|)
frees the space allocated during the
.B getnetgrent(\|)
calls.
.B innetgr
returns 1 or 0, depending on whether
.I netgroup
contains the machine, user, domain triple as a member.
Any of the three strings
.IR machine ,
.IR user ,
or
.I domain
can be
.SM NULL\s0,
in which case it signifies a wild card.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/netgroup
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domain /netgroup
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domain /netgroup.byuser
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domain /netgroup.byhost
.PD
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
must be running when using
.B getnetgrent(\|), 
since it
only inspects the
.SM NIS
netgroup map, never the local files.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
