.\" @(#)getprotoent.3n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH GETPROTOENT 3N "14 December 1987"
.SH NAME
getprotoent, getprotobynumber, getprotobyname, setprotoent, endprotoent \- get protocol entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
.B #include <netdb.h>
.LP
.ft B
struct protoent *getprotoent(\|)
.LP
.ft B
struct protoent *getprotobyname(name)
char *name;
.LP
.ft B
struct protoent *getprotobynumber(proto)
int proto;
.LP
.ft B
setprotoent(stayopen)
int stayopen;
.LP
.ft B
endprotoent(\|)
.fi
.IX  get "protocol entry \(em \fLgetprotoent()\fR"
.IX  "protocol entry, get" "" "protocol entry, get \(em \fLgetprotoent()\fR"
.IX  "getprotoent()"  ""  "\fLgetprotoent()\fP \(em get protocol entry"
.IX  "getprotobynumber()"  ""  "\fLgetprotobynumber()\fP \(em get protocol entry"
.IX  "getprotobynumber()"  ""  "\fLgetprotobynumber()\fP \(em get protocol entry"
.IX  "setprotoent()"  ""  "\fLsetprotoent()\fP \(em get protocol entry"
.IX  "endprotoent()"  ""  "\fLendprotoent()\fP \(em get protocol entry"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.BR getprotoent ,
.BR getprotobyname ,
and
.B getprotobynumber(\|)
each return a pointer to an object with the
following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the network protocol data base,
.BR /etc/protocols .
.RS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct	protoent {
	char	*p_name;	/* official name of protocol */
	char	**p_aliases;	/* alias list */
	int	p_proto;	/* protocol number */
};
.ft R
.ad
.fi
.RE
.LP
The members of this structure are:
.LP
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B p_name
The official name of the protocol.
.TP
.B p_aliases
A zero terminated list of alternate names for the protocol.
.TP
.B p_proto
The protocol number.
.PD
.LP
.B getprotoent(\|)
reads the next line of the file, opening the file if necessary.
.LP
.B setprotoent(\|)
opens and rewinds the file.  If the
.I stayopen
flag is non-zero,
the net data base will not be closed after each call to
.B getprotoent(\|)
(either directly, or indirectly through one of
the other \*(lqgetproto\*(rq calls).
.LP
.B endprotoent(\|)
closes the file.
.LP
.B getprotobyname(\|)
and
.B getprotobynumber(\|)
sequentially search from the beginning
of the file until a matching protocol name or
protocol number is found, or until end-of-file is encountered.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/protocols
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /protocols.byname
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /protocols.bynumber
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR protocols (5),
.BR ypserv (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A
.SM NULL
pointer is returned on end-of-file or error.
.SH BUGS
All information
is contained in a static area
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.  Only the Internet
protocols are currently understood.
