.\" @(#)getrpcent.3n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH GETRPCENT 3N "14 December 1987"
.SH NAME
getrpcent, getrpcbyname, getrpcbynumber, endrpcent, setrpcent \- get RPC entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <netdb.h>
.LP
.ft B
struct rpcent *getrpcent(\|)
.LP
.ft B
struct rpcent *getrpcbyname(name)
char *name;
.LP
.ft B
struct rpcent *getrpcbynumber(number)
int number;
.LP
.ft B
setrpcent (stayopen)
int stayopen
.LP
.ft B
endrpcent (\|)
.fi
.IX  get "RPC program entry \(em \fLgetrpcent()\fR"
.IX  set "RPC program entry \(em \fLsetrpcent()\fR"
.IX  "RPC program entry, get \(em \fLgetrpcent()\fR"
.IX  "getrpcent()"  ""  "\fLgetrpcent()\fP \(em get RPC entry"
.IX  "getrpcbynumber()"  ""  "\fLgetrpcbynumber()\fP \(em get RPC entry"
.IX  "getrpcbyname()"  ""  "\fLgetrpcbyname()\fP \(em get RPC entry"
.IX  "setrpcent()"  ""  "\fLsetrpcent()\fP \(em get RPC entry"
.IX  "endrpcent()"  ""  "\fLendrpcent()\fP \(em get RPC entry"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.BR getrpcent ,
.BR getrpcbyname ,
and
.B getrpcbynumber(\|)
each return a pointer to an object with the
following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the rpc program number data base,
.BR /etc/rpc .
.RS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct	rpcent {
	char	*r_name;	/* name of server for this rpc program */
	char	**r_aliases;	/* alias list */
	long	r_number;	/* rpc program number */
};
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
The members of this structure are:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B r_name
The name of the server for this rpc program.
.TP 20
.B r_aliases
A zero terminated list of alternate names for the rpc program.
.TP  20
.B r_number
The rpc program number for this service.
.PD
.RE
.LP
.B getrpcent(\|)
reads the next line of the file, opening the file if necessary.
.LP
.B setrpcent(\|)
opens and rewinds the file.  If the
.I stayopen
flag is non-zero,
the net data base will not be closed after each call to
.B getrpcent(\|)
(either directly, or indirectly through one of
the other \*(lqgetrpc\*(rq calls).
.LP
.B endrpcent
closes the file.
.LP
.B getrpcbyname(\|)
and
.B getrpcbynumber(\|)
sequentially search from the beginning
of the file until a matching rpc program name or
program number is found, or until end-of-file is encountered.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/rpc
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /rpc.bynumber
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rpc (5),
.BR rpcinfo (8C),
.BR ypserv (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
A
.SM NULL
pointer is returned on 
.SM EOF
or error.
.SH BUGS
.LP
All information
is contained in a static area
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.
