.\" @(#)gets.3s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD and S5
.TH GETS 3S  "1 August 1988"
.SH NAME
gets, fgets \- get a string from a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <stdio.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
char *gets(s)
char *s;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.B char *fgets(s, n, stream)
.B char *s;
.B \s-1FILE\s0 *stream;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  get "string from stdin \(em \fLgets()\fP"
.IX  get "string from stream \(em \fLfgets()\fP"
.IX  stdin  "get string from"  ""  "get string from \(em \fLgets()\fP"
.IX  stream  "get string from"  ""  "get string from \(em \fLfgets()\fP"
.IX  "gets()"  ""  "\fLgets()\fP \(em get string from stdin"
.IX  "fgets()"  ""  "\fLfgets()\fP \(em get string from stream"
.IX  "string operations"  "get from stream"  ""  "get from stream \(em \fLfgets()\fP"
.IX  "string operations"  "get from stdin"  ""  "get from stdin \(em \fLgets()\fP"
.LP
.B gets(\|)
reads characters from the standard input stream,
.BR stdin ,
into the array pointed to by
.IR s ,
until a
.SM NEWLINE
character is read or an
.SM EOF
condition is encountered.  The
.SM NEWLINE
character is discarded and the string is terminated with a
null
character.
.B gets(\|)
returns its argument.
.LP
.B fgets(\|)
reads characters from the
stream
into the array pointed to by
.IR s ,
until
.IR n \-1
characters are read, a
.SM NEWLINE
character is read and transferred to
.IR s ,
or an
.SM EOF
condition is encountered.
The string is then terminated with a
null
character.
.B fgets(\|)
returns its first argument.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR puts (3S),
.BR getc (3V),
.BR scanf (3V),
.BR fread (3S),
.BR ferror (3V)
.SH BUGS
.LP
If the input to 
.B gets (\|) 
or  
.B fgets (\|) 
contains a  
null character,
the null
terminates the input,
and all subsequent data will be lost.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If
.SM EOF
is encountered and no characters have
been read, no characters are transferred to
.I s
and a
.SM NULL
pointer is returned.
If a read error occurs, such as trying to use these functions
on a file that has not been opened for reading, a
.SM NULL
pointer is returned.
Otherwise
.I s
is returned.
