.\" @(#)getttyent.3 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH GETTTYENT 3  "6 October 1987"
.SH NAME
getttyent, getttynam, setttyent, endttyent \- get ttytab file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <ttyent.h>
.LP
.B struct ttyent *getttyent(\|)
.LP
.B struct ttyent *getttynam(name)
.B char *name;
.LP
.B setttyent(\|)
.LP
.B endttyent(\|)
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "getttyent()" "" "\fLgetttyent()\fP \(em get ttytab file entry"
.IX "getttynam()" "" "\fLgetttynam()\fP \(em get ttytab file entry"
.IX "setttyent()" "" "\fLsetttyent()\fP \(em rewind ttytab file"
.IX "endttyent()" "" "\fLendttyent()\fP \(em close ttytab file"
.LP
.B getttyent(\|)
and
.B getttynam(\|)
each return a pointer to an object with the
following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line from the tty description file.
.RS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct	ttyent {
	char	*ty_name;	/* terminal device name */
	char	*ty_getty;	/* command to execute, usually getty */
	char	*ty_type;	/* terminal type for termcap (3X) */
	int	ty_status;	/* status flags (see below for defines) */
	char 	*ty_window;	/* command to start up window manager */
	char	*ty_comment;	/* usually the location of the terminal */
};
#define \s-1TTY_ON\s0		0x1	/* enable logins (startup getty) */
#define \s-1TTY_SECURE\s0	0x2	/* allow root to login */
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.RS
.TP 20
.B ty_name
is the name of the character-special file in the directory
.BR /dev .
For various reasons, it must reside in the directory
.BR /dev .
.TP
.B ty_getty
is the command (usually
.BR getty (8))
which is invoked by
.B init
to initialize tty line characteristics.
In fact, any arbitrary command can be used;
a typical use is to initiate a terminal emulator in a window system.
.TP
.B ty_type
is the name of the default terminal type connected to this tty line. This
is typically a name from the
.BR termcap (5)
data base.
The environment variable
.SM TERM
is initialized with this name by
.BR getty (8)
or
.BR login (1).
.TP
.B ty_status
is a mask of bit fields which indicate various actions to be allowed on this
tty line. The following is a description of each flag.
.RS
.RS
.TP
.SB TTY_ON
Enables logins (that is,
.BR init (8)
will start the specified \*(lqgetty\*(rq command
on this entry).
.TP
.SB TTY_SECURE
Allows root to login on this terminal. Note: 
.SB TTY_ON
must be included for this to be useful.
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B ty_window
is the command to execute for a window system
associated with the line.  The window system will be started before
the command specified in the
.B ty_getty
entry is executed.
If none is specified, this will be
.SM NULL\s0.
.TP
.B ty_comment
is the trailing comment field, if any; a leading delimiter and white space
will be removed.
.RE
.LP
.B getttyent(\|)
reads the next line from the
.B ttytab
file, opening the file if necessary;
.B setttyent(\|)
rewinds the file;
.B endttyent(\|)
closes it.
.LP
.B getttynam(\|)
searches from the beginning of the file until a matching
.I name
is found (or until
.SM EOF
is encountered).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/ttytab
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR login (1),
.BR ttyslot (3V),
.BR gettytab (5),
.BR ttytab (5),
.BR termcap (5),
.BR getty (8),
.BR init (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
.SM NULL
pointer (0) returned on
.SM EOF
or error.
.SH BUGS
All information
is contained in a static area
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.
