.\" @(#)ipalloc.3r 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH IPALLOC 3R "2 February 1988"
.SH NAME
ipalloc \- determine or temporarily allocate IP address
.SH PROTOCOL
.B /usr/include/rpcsvc/ipalloc.x
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "ipalloc()" "" "\fLipalloc()\fP \(em IP address mapper"
.IX "ipalloc()" "" "\fLipalloc()\fP \(em determine or temporarily allocate IP address"
.IX "IP address mapping"
.IX "IP address allocation"
.LP
.B ipalloc(\|)
is the protocol for allocating the
.SM IP
address that a system should use.
.SH PROGRAMMING
.LP
.B #include <rpcsvc/ipalloc.h>
.LP
The following
.SM RPC
calls are available in version 2 of this protocol:
.TP
.SB NULLPROC
This is a standard null entry, used to ping a service to measure overhead or
to discover servers.
.TP
.SB IP_ALLOC
Returns an
.SM IP
address corresponding to a given Ethernet address, if
possible.
This
.SM RPC
must be called using
.SM DES
authentication, from a client
authorized to allocate
.SM IP
addresses.
A cache of allocated addresses is maintained.
.IP
The first action taken on receipt of this
.SM RPC
is to verify that no existing
mapping between the 
.I etheraddr 
and the 
.I netnum 
exists in the
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
database.
If one is found, then that is returned. 
Otherwise, an internal
cache is checked, and
if an entry is found there for the given 
.I etheraddr 
on the right network, that
entry is used.
If no address was found either in the 
.SM NIS
database or
in the cache, a new one may be allocated and returned, and the
.I ip_success
status is returned.
.IP
If an unusable entry was found in the cache, this
.SM RPC
returns
.B ip_failure
status.
.TP
.B IP_TONAME
Used to determine whether a given
.SM IP
address is known to the
.SM NIS
service, since
.SM NIS
allows a delay between the posting of 
an address and its availability in some locations on the network.
.TP
.B IP_FREE
This
.SM RPC
is used to delete 
.I ipaddr
entries from the cache when they are no longer needed
there.
It requires the same protections as the
.SB IP_ALLOC
.SM RPC\s0.
.\"The following
.\".SM XDR
.\"routines are available in
.\".BR librpcsvc :
.\".nf
.\".ft B
.\"xdr_ip_status
.\"xdr_ip_alloc_arg
.\"xdr_ip_alloc_res
.\"xdr_ip_addr_arg
.\"xdr_ip_toname_res
.\".ft R
.\".fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ipallocd (8C),
.BR pnpboot (8C)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
