.\" @(#)mktemp.3 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD and S5
.TH MKTEMP 3  "6 September 1989"
.SH NAME
mktemp, mkstemp \- make a unique file name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B char *mktemp(template)
.B char *template;
.LP
.B mkstemp(template)
.B char *template;
.fi
.IX  "mktemp()"  ""  "\fLmktemp()\fP \(em make unique file name"
.IX  "create" "unique file name \(em \fLmktemp()\fP"
.IX  "unique file name"  create  "unique file name"  "create \(em \fLmktemp()\fP"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B mktemp(\|)
creates a unique file name, typically in a
temporary filesystem, by replacing
.I template
with a unique file name, and returns the address of
.IR template .
The string in
.I template
should contain a file name with six trailing
.BR X s;
.B mktemp(\|)
replaces the
.BR X s
with a letter and the current process
.SM ID\s0.
The letter will be chosen so that the resulting
name does not duplicate an existing file.
.B mkstemp(\|)
makes the same replacement to the template
but returns a file descriptor
for the template file open for reading and writing.
.B mkstemp(\|)
avoids the race between testing whether the
file exists and opening it for use.
.LP
Notes:
.TP 2
\(bu
.B mktemp(\|)
and
.B mkstemp(\|)
actually
.I change
the template string which you pass; this
means that you cannot use the same template
string more than once \(em you need a fresh
template for every unique file you want to open.
.TP 2
\(bu
When
.B mktemp(\|)
or
.B mkstemp(\|)
are creating a new unique filename they check
for the prior existence of a file with that name.
This means that if you are creating more than one
unique filename, it is bad practice to use the
same root template for multiple invocations of
.B mktemp(\|)
or
.BR mkstemp(\|) .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getpid (2V),
.BR open (2V),
.BR tmpfile (3S),
.BR tmpnam (3S)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B mkstemp(\|)
returns an open file descriptor upon success.
It returns \-1 if no suitable file could be created.
.LP
.B mktemp(\|)
assigns the
null
string to
.I template
when it cannot create a unique name.
.SH BUGS
It is possible to run out of letters.
