.\" @(#)msync.3 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH MSYNC 3 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
msync \- synchronize memory with physical storage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/mman.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int msync(addr, len, flags)
caddr_t addr; size_t len; int flags;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "msync()" "" "\fLmsync()\fR \(em synchronize memory with physical storage" ""
.IX "synchronize" "memory with physical storage"
.IX "memory" "synchronize with physical storage"
.IX "storage" "synchronize with memory"
.LP
.B msync(\|)
writes all modified copies of pages over the range
[\fIaddr, addr + len\fP\^)
to their permanent storage locations.
.B msync(\|)
optionally invalidates any copies so that further references to the pages
will be obtained by the system from their permanent
storage locations.
.LP
Values for
.I flags
are defined in
.B <sys/mman.h>
as:
.LP
.nf
.ta 25n 35n
.ft B
#define \s-1MS_ASYNC\s0	0x1	/* Return immediately */
#define \s-1MS_INVALIDATE\s0	0x2	/* Invalidate mappings */
.ft R
.fi
.LP
and are used to control the behavior of
.BR msync(\|) .
One or more flags may
be specified in a single call.
.LP
.SB MS_ASYNC
returns
immediately once all I/O operations are
scheduled; normally,
.B msync(\|)
will not return until all I/O operations are complete.
.SB MS_INVALIDATE
invalidates all cached copies of data
from memory objects,
requiring them to be re-obtained from the object's permanent
storage location upon the next reference.
.LP
.B msync(\|)
should be used by programs that require a memory object to
be
in a known state, for example in building transaction facilities.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B msync(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EINVAL
.I addr
is not a multiple of the  page size as returned by
.BR getpagesize (2).
.IP
.I flags
is not some combination of
.SB MS_ASYNC
or
.SB MS_INVALIDATE.
.TP
.SM EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.TP
.SM ENOMEM
Addresses in the range
[\fIaddr, addr + len\fP\^)
are outside the valid range for
the address space of a process, or specify one or more pages that are not
mapped.
.TP
.SM EPERM
.SB MS_INVALIDATE
was specified and one or more of the pages is locked in memory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mctl (2),
.BR mmap (2)

