.\" @(#)nice.3v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH NICE 3V "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
nice \- change nice value of a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int nice(incr)
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "nice()"  ""  "\fLnice()\fP \(em change nice value of a process"
.IX  process "priority \(em \fLnice()\fP"
.IX  "priority of process \(em \fLnice()\fP"
.LP
The nice value of the process is changed by
.IR incr .
Positive nice values get less service than normal.
See
.BR nice (1)
for a discussion of the relationship of nice value and scheduling priority.
.LP
A nice value of 10 is recommended to users who wish
to execute long-running programs without
undue impact on system performance.
.LP
Negative increments are illegal, except when
specified by the super-user.
The nice value is limited to the range \-20
(most urgent) to 19 (least).
Requests for values above or below these
limits result in the nice value
being set to the corresponding limit.
.LP
The nice value of a process is passed to a child process by
.BR fork (2V).
For a privileged process to return to
normal nice value from an unknown state,
.B nice(\|)
should be called successively with
arguments \-40 (goes to nice value
\-20 because of truncation), 20 (to get to 0),
then 0 (to maintain compatibility with previous
versions of this call).
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
.LP
The maximum allowed value for
.I incr
is 40 (least urgent).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B nice(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH SYSTEM V RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B nice(\|)
returns
the new nice value
on success.
On failure,
it returns
\-1
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The nice value is not changed if:
.TP 15
.SM EACCES
The value of
.I incr
specified was negative, and the effective user
.SM ID
is not super-user.
.SH SYSTEM V ERRORS
.LP
The nice value is not changed if:
.TP 15
.SM EPERM
The value of
.I incr
specified was negative, or greater than 40,
and the effective user
.SM ID
is not super-user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nice (1),
.BR fork (2V),
.BR getpriority (2),
.BR pstat (8),
.BR renice (8)
