.\" @(#)nlist.3v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD and S5
.TH NLIST 3V "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
nlist \- get entries from symbol table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <nlist.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int nlist(filename, nl)
char *filename;
struct nlist *nl;
.ft
.fi
.IX  "nlist()"  ""  "\fLnlist()\fP \(em get entries from symbol table"
.IX  get "entries from symbol table \(em \fLnlist()\fP"
.IX  "symbol table, get entries from \(em \fLnlist()\fR"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B nlist(\|)
examines the symbol table from the executable image whose name is pointed
to by
.IR filename ,
and selectively extracts a list of values and puts them in the array of
.B nlist(\|)
structures pointed to by
.IR nl .
The name list pointed to by
.I nl
consists of an array of structures containing names,
types and values.  The
.I n_name
field of each such structure is taken to be a pointer to a
character string representing a symbol name.  The list is terminated
by an entry with a
.SM NULL
pointer (or a pointer to a
null
string) in the
.I n_name
field.  For each entry in
.IR nl ,
if the named symbol is present in the executable image's symbol table,
its value and type are placed in the
.I n_value
and
.I n_type
fields.
If a symbol cannot be located, the corresponding
.I n_type
field of
.I nl
is set to zero.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
On success,
.B nlist(\|)
returns
the number of symbols that were not located in the symbol table.
On failure,
it returns
\-1
and sets all of the
.I n_type
fields in members of the array pointed to by
.I nl
to zero.
.SH SYSTEM V RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B nlist(\|)
returns 0
on success.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR a.out (5),
.BR coff (5)
.SH NOTES
.\" Sun386i
.LP
On Sun-2, Sun-3, and Sun-4 systems, type entries are set to 0 if 
the file cannot be read
or if it does not contain a valid name list.
.LP
On Sun386i systems, the type entries may be zero even when the name
list succeeded, but the value entries will be zero only when the file
cannot be read or does not contain a valid name list.  Therefore, 
on Sun386i systems,
the value entry can be used to determine whether the command succeeded.
