.\" @(#)plot.3x 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 6.2 5/15/86
.TH PLOT 3X  "1 July 1990"
.SH NAME
plot, openpl, erase, label, line, circle, arc, move, cont, point, linemod, space, closepl \- graphics interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B openpl(\|)
.LP
.B erase(\|)
.LP
.B label(s)
.B char s[\|];
.LP
.B line(x1, y1, x2, y2)
.LP
.B circle(x, y, r)
.LP
.B arc(x, y, x0, y0, x1, y1)
.LP
.B move(x, y)
.LP
.B cont(x, y)
.LP
.B point(x, y)
.LP
.B linemod(s)
.B char s[\|];
.LP
.B space(x0, y0, x1, y1)
.LP
.B closepl(\|)
.fi
.ft R
.IX  "openpl()"  ""  "\fLopenpl()\fP \(em open plot device"
.IX  "graphics interface"  openpl()  ""  \fLopenpl()\fP
.IX  "erase()"  ""  "\fLerase()\fP \(em start new plot frame"
.IX  "graphics interface"  erase()  ""  \fLerase()\fP
.IX  "label()"  ""  "\fLlabel()\fP \(em plot label"
.IX  "graphics interface"  label()  ""  \fLlabel()\fP
.IX  "line()"  ""  "\fLline()\fP \(em plot line"
.IX  "graphics interface"  line()  ""  \fLline()\fP
.IX  "circle()"  ""  "\fLcircle()\fP \(em plot circle"
.IX  "graphics interface"  circle()  ""  \fLcircle()\fP
.IX  "arc()"  ""  "\fLarc()\fP \(em plot arc"
.IX  "graphics interface"  arc()  ""  \fLarc()\fP
.IX  "move()"  ""  "\fLmove()\fP \(em move current point"
.IX  "graphics interface"  move()  ""  \fLmove()\fP
.IX  "cont()"  ""  "\fLcont()\fP \(em continue line"
.IX  "graphics interface"  cont()  ""  \fLcont()\fP
.IX  "point()"  ""  "\fLpoint()\fP \(em plot point"
.IX  "graphics interface"  point()  ""  \fLpoint()\fP
.IX  "linemod()"  ""  "\fLlinemod()\fP \(em set line style"
.IX  "graphics interface"  linemod()  ""  \fLlinemod()\fP
.IX  "space()"  ""  "\fLspace()\fP \(em specify plot space"
.IX  "graphics interface"  space()  ""  \fLspace()\fP
.IX  "closepl()"  ""  "\fLclosepl()\fP \(em close plot device"
.IX  "graphics interface"  closepl()  ""  \fLclosepl()\fP
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
These routines are available with the
.I Graphics
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These subroutines generate graphic output in a relatively
device-independent manner.  See
.BR plot (5)
for a description of their effect.
.B openpl(\|)
must be used before any of the others
to open the device for writing.
.B closepl(\|)
flushes the output.
.LP
String arguments to
.B label(\|)
and
.B linemod(\|)
are
null-terminated
and do not contain
.SM NEWLINE
characters.
.LP
Various flavors of these functions exist
for different output devices.
They are obtained by the following
.BR ld (1)
options:
.TP 15
.B \-lplot
device-independent graphics stream on standard output for
.BR plot (1G)
filters
.TP
.B \-l300
.SM GSI\s0 300 terminal
.TP
.B \-l300s
.SM GSI\s0 300S terminal
.TP
.B \-l450
.SM GSI\s0 450 terminal
.TP
.B \-l4014
Tektronix 4014 terminal
.TP
.B \-lplotaed
.SM AED\s0 512 color graphics terminal
.TP
.B \-lplotbg
.SM BBN\s0 bitgraph graphics terminal
.TP
.B \-lplotdumb
Dumb terminals without cursor addressing or line printers
.TP
.B \-lplotgigi
.SM DEC\s0 Gigi terminals
.TP
.B \-lplot2648
Hewlett Packard 2648 graphics terminal
.TP
.B \-lplot7221
Hewlett Packard 7221 graphics terminal
.TP
.B \-lplotimagen
Imagen laser printer (default 240 dots-per-inch resolution).
.br
.ne 14
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/libplot.a
.TP
.B /usr/lib/lib300.a
.TP
.B /usr/lib/lib300s.a
.TP
.B /usr/lib/lib450.a
.TP
.B /usr/lib/lib4014.a
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libplotaed.a
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libplotbg.a
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libplotdumb.a
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libplotgigi.a
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libplot2648.a
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libplot7221.a
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libplotimagen.a
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR graph (1G),
.BR ld (1),
.BR plot (1G),
.BR plot (5)
