.\" @(#)pnp.3r 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH PNP 3R "2 February 1988"
.SH NAME
pnp \- automatic network installation
.SH PROTOCOL
.B /usr/include/rpcsvc/pnprpc.x
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "pnp()" "" "\fLpnp()\fP \(em automatic network installation"
.IX "automatic network install"
.LP
.B pnp(\|)
is used during unattended network installation, and routine booting,
of Sun386i systems on a Sun386i network.
Each network cable (subnetwork or full network) must have at least one
.BR pnpd (8C)
server running on it to support
.SM PNP\s0.
.SH PROGRAMMING
.B #include <rpcsvc/pnprpc.h>
.LP
The following
.SM RPC
calls are available in version 2 of the
.SM PNP
protocol:
.TP
.SB NULLPROC
Finds a
.SM PNP
daemon on the local network.  Used with
.BR clntudp_broadcast(\|) ,
often to measure network overhead.
.TP
.SB PNP_WHOAMI
Used early in the boot process to acquire network configuration 
information about a system, or to determine that a system is not known by the 
network.
.TP
.SB PNP_ACQUIRE
Used to acquire a server willing to 
configure a new system after a
.SB PNP_WHOAMI
request fails.  This
.SM RPC
is typically broadcast; any successful reply may be used.
.TP
.SB PNP_SETUP
Requests a network configuration from a
.SM PNP
daemon that has responded to a previous
.SB PNP_ACQUIRE
.SM RPC.
.TP
.SB PNP_POLL
After a
.SB PNP_SETUP
request, if the status is 
.BR in_progress ,
the procedure is to wait 20
seconds, and issue a
.SB PNP_POLL
request, and then check the status again.
Once the status is 
.BR success ,
the system will be configured for the network.
Entries in the yp database may be added or old ones deleted, and
file storage may be assigned, according to the architecture and boot type.
.PP
If the server misses 5 
.SB PNP_POLL
requests, it will assume that the client system crashed and
back out of the procedure.
Similarly, if the client system does not receive responses from the server 
for
.SB PNP_MISSEDPOLLS
consecutive requests, it should assume the server crashed and begin its
.SM PNP
sequence again.
.LP
.\"The following XDR routines are available in
.\".I librpcsvc:
.\".nf
.\".ft B
.\"xdr_pnp_errcode
.\"xdr_how_to_boot
.\"xdr_net_type
.\"xdr_hw_addr
.\"xdr_pnp_acquire_arg
.\"xdr_pnp_setup_arg
.\"xdr_pnp_poll_ret
.\"xdr_pnp_whoami_arg
.\"xdr_pnp_whoami_ret
.\".ft R
.\".fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pnpboot (8C),
.BR pnpd (8C)
