.\" @(#)putenv.3 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5
.TH PUTENV 3 "21 February 1989"
.SH NAME
putenv \- change or add value to environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B int putenv(string)
.B char \(**string;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "putenv()"  ""  "\fLputenv()\fP \(em set environment value"
.IX  set "environment value \(em \fLputenv()\fP"
.IX  environment  "set value"  ""  "set value \(em \fLputenv()\fP"
.LP
.I string
points to a string of the form
`\fIname\fB=\fIvalue\fR'
.B putenv(\|)
makes the value of the environment variable
.I name
equal to
.I value
by altering an existing variable or creating a new one.
In either case, the string pointed to by
.I string
becomes part of the
environment, so altering the string will change the environment.
The space used by
.I string
is no longer used once a new string-defining
.I name
is passed to
.BR putenv(\|) .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR execve (2V),
.BR getenv (3V),
.BR malloc (3V),
.BR environ (5V).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
.B putenv(\|)
returns non-zero
if it was unable to obtain enough space using
.BR malloc (3V)
for an expanded environment,
otherwise zero.
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
.B putenv(\|)
manipulates the environment pointed to by
.IR environ ,
and can be used in conjunction with
.BR getenv(\|) .
However,
.I envp
(the third argument to
.IR main )
is not changed.
.LP
This routine uses
.BR malloc (3V)
to enlarge the environment.
.LP
After
.B putenv(\|)
is called, environmental variables are not in
alphabetical order.
.LP
A potential error is to call
.B putenv(\|)
with an automatic variable
as the argument, then exit the calling function while
.I string
is still part of the environment.
