.\" @(#)pwdauth.3 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH PWDAUTH 3 "14 December 1987"
.SH NAME
pwdauth, grpauth \- password authentication routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.B int pwdauth(user, password)
.B char *user;
.B char *password;
.fi
.LP
.nf
.B int grpauth(group, password)
.B char *group;
.B char *password;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "pwdauth()" "" "\fLpwdauth()\fP \(em password authentication function"
.IX "grpauth()" "" "\fLgrpauth()\fP \(em password authentication function"
.LP
.B pwdauth(\|)
and
.B grpauth(\|)
determine whether the given guess at a
.I password
is valid for the given
.I user
or
.IR group .
If the
.I password
is valid, the functions return 0.
.LP
A
.I password
is valid if the password when encrypted matches the
encrypted password in the appropriate file.  For
.BR pwdauth(\|) ,
if the
.B password.adjunct
file exists, the encrypted password will be in
either the local or the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
version of that file.
Otherwise, either the local or
.SM NIS
.B passwd
file will be used.
For
.BR grpauth(\|) ,
the
.B group.adjunct
file (if it exists) or the
.B group
file (otherwise) will be checked on the local machine
and then using the
.SM NIS
service.
In all cases, the local files will be checked before the
.SM NIS
files.
Also, if the adjunct files exist, the main file will never
be used for authentication even if they include encrypted passwords.
.LP
Both
.B pwdauth(\|)
and
.B grpauth(\|)
interface to the authentication daemon,
.BR rpc.pwdauthd ,
to do the checking of the adjunct files.
This daemon must be running on any system that
provides password authentication.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.\" .B /etc/security/passwd.adjunct
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /passwd.adjunct.byname
.\" .TP
.B /etc/passwd
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /passwd.byname
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /passwd.byuid
.\" .TP
.\" .B /etc/security/group.adjunct
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /group.adjunct.byname
.TP
.B /etc/group
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /group.byname
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /group.byuid
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getgraent (3),
.BR getgrent (3V),
.BR getpwaent (3),
.BR getpwent (3V),
.BR pwdauthd (8C)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
