.\" @(#)realpath.3 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH REALPATH 3  "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
realpath \- return the canonicalized absolute pathname
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/param.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
char *realpath(path, resolved_path)
char *path;
char resolved_path[\s-1MAXPATHLEN\s0];
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "realpath()" "" "\fLrealpath()\fP \(em return absolute pathname"
.LP
.B realpath(\|)
expands all symbolic links and resolves references to '/./', '/.\|./'
and extra '/' characters in the null terminated string named by
.I path
and stores the canonicalized absolute pathname in the buffer named by
.IR resolved_path .
The resulting path will have no symbolic links components, nor
any '/./' or '/.\|./' components.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B realpath(\|)
returns
a pointer to the
.I resolved_path
on success.
On failure,
it returns
.SM NULL\s0,
sets
.B errno
to indicate the error,
and places in
.I resolved_path
the absolute pathname of the
.I path
component which could not be resolved.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 20
.SM EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of
.IR path .
.TP
.SM EFAULT
.I resolved_path
extends outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
.SM ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.TP
.SM EINVAL
.I path
or
.I resolved_path
was
.SM NULL\s0.
.TP
.SM EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.TP
.SM ENAMETOOLONG
The length of the path argument exceeds
.SM {PATH_MAX}\s0.
.IP
A pathname component is longer than
.SM {NAME_MAX}
(see
.BR sysconf (2V))
while
.SM {_POSIX_NO_TRUNC}
is in effect
(see
.BR pathconf (2V)).
.TP
.SM ENOENT
The named file does not exist.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR readlink (2),
.BR getwd (3)
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
It indirectly invokes the
.BR readlink(2)
system call and
.BR getwd(3)
library call
(for relative path names), and hence inherits the possibility of hanging due
to inaccessible file system resources.
