.\" @(#)rpc.3n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new on release 3.0
.TH RPC 3N "20 January 1990"
.SH NAME
rpc \- library routines for remote procedure calls
.SH SYNOPSIS AND DESCRIPTION
.IX rpc "" "RPC routines"
.IX "remote procedure calls"
.LP
.SM RPC
routines allow C programs to make procedure
calls on other machines across the network.
First, the client calls a procedure to send a
request to the server.
Upon receipt of the request, the server calls a dispatch routine
to perform the requested service, and then sends back a
reply.
Finally, the procedure call returns to the client.
.LP
All
.SM RPC
routines require the header
.B <rpc/rpc.h>
to be included.
.LP
The
.SM RPC
routines have been grouped by usage on the following man pages.
.TP 20
.BR portmap (3N)
Library routines for the
.SM RPC
bind service,
.BR portmap (8C).
The routines documented on this page include:
.RS 25
.nf
.ft B
pmap_getmaps(\|)
pmap_getport(\|)
pmap_rmtcall(\|)
pmap_set(\|)
pmap_unset(\|)
xdr_pmap(\|)
xdr_pmaplist(\|)
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.TP
.BR rpc_clnt_auth (3N)
Library routines for client side remote procedure call authentication.
The routines documented on this page include:
.RS 25
.nf
.ft B
auth_destroy(\|)
authnone_create(\|)
authunix_create(\|)
authunix_create_default(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BR rpc_clnt_calls (3N)
Library routines for client side calls.
The routines documented on this page include:
.RS 25
.nf
.ft B
callrpc(\|)
clnt_broadcast(\|)
clnt_call(\|)
clnt_freeres(\|)
clnt_geterr(\|)
clnt_perrno(\|)
clnt_perror(\|)
clnt_sperrno(\|)
clnt_sperror(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BR rpc_clnt_create (3N)
Library routines for dealing with the creation and manipulation of
.SM CLIENT
handles.
The routines documented on this page include:
.RS 25
.nf
.ft B
clnt_control(\|)
clnt_create(\|)
clnt_create_vers(\|)
clnt_destroy(\|)
clnt_pcreateerror(\|)
clntraw_create(\|)
clnt_spcreateerror(\|)
clnttcp_create(\|)
clntudp_bufcreate(\|)
clntudp_create(\|)
rpc_createrr(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.br
.ne 8
.TP
.BR rpc_svc_calls (3N)
Library routines for registerring servers.
The routines documented on this page include:
.RS 25
.nf
.ft B
registerrpc(\|)
svc_register(\|)
svc_unregister(\|)
xprt_register(\|)
xprt_unregister(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BR rpc_svc_create (3N)
Library routines for dealing with the creation of server side handles.
The routines documented on this page include:
.RS 25
.nf
.ft B
svc_destroy(\|)
svcfd_create(\|)
svcraw_create(\|)
svctcp_create(\|)
svcudp_bufcreate(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BR rpc_svc_err (3N)
Library routines for server side remote procedure call errors.
The routines documented on this page include:
.RS 25
.nf
.ft B
svcerr_auth(\|)
svcerr_decode(\|)
svcerr_noproc(\|)
svcerr_noprog(\|)
svcerr_progvers(\|)
svcerr_systemerr(\|)
svcerr_weakauth(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BR rpc_svc_reg (3N)
Library routines for
.SM RPC
servers.
The routines documented on this page include:
.RS 25
.nf
.ft B
svc_fds(\|)
svc_fdset(\|)
svc_freeargs(\|)
svc_getargs(\|)
svc_getcaller(\|)
svc_getreq(\|)
svc_getreqset(\|)
svc_run(\|)
svc_sendreply(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BR rpc_xdr (3N)
.SM XDR
library routines for remote procedure calls.
The routines documented on this page include:
.RS 25
.nf
.ft B
xdr_accepted_reply(\|)
xdr_authunix_parms(\|)
xdr_callhdr(\|)
xdr_callmsg(\|)
xdr_opaque_auth(\|)
xdr_rejected_reply(\|)
xdr_replymsg(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.br
.ne 13
.TP
.BR secure_rpc (3N)
Library routines for secure remote procedure calls.
The routines documented on this page include:
.RS 25
.nf
.ft B
authdes_create(\|)
authdes_getucred(\|)
get_mayaddress(\|)
getnetname(\|)
host2netname(\|)
key_decryptsession(\|)
key_encryptsession(\|)
key_gendes(\|)
key_setsecret(\|)
netname2host(\|)
netname2user(\|)
user2netname(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR portmap (3N),
.BR rpc_clnt_auth (3N),
.BR rpc_clnt_calls (3N),
.BR rpc_clnt_create (3N),
.BR rpc_svc_calls (3N),
.BR rpc_svc_create (3N),
.BR rpc_svc_err (3N),
.BR rpc_svc_reg (3N),
.BR rpc_xdr (3N),
.BR secure_rpc (3N),
.BR xdr (3N),
.BR publickey (5),
.BR portmap (8C),
.BR keyserv (8C)
.LP
.TX NETP
