.\" @(#)scandir.3 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH SCANDIR 3  "6 October 1987"
.SH NAME
scandir, alphasort \- scan a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/dir.h>
.LP
.B scandir(dirname, &namelist, select, compar)
.B char *dirname;
.B struct direct **namelist;
.B int (*select)(\|);
.B int (*compar)(\|);
.LP
.B alphasort(d1, d2)
.B struct direct **d1, **d2;
.fi
.IX  "scandir()"  ""  "\fLscandir()\fR \(em scan directory"
.IX  "alphasort()"  ""  "\fLalphasort()\fR \(em sort directory"
.IX  "scan directory" "scandir" "" "\fLscandir()\fR"
.IX  "scan directory" "alphasort" "" "\fLalphasort()\fR"
.IX  directory  scan
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B scandir(\|)
reads the directory
.B dirname
and builds an array of pointers to directory entries using
.BR malloc (3V).
The second parameter is a pointer to an array of structure pointers.
The third parameter is a pointer to a routine which is called with a
pointer to a directory entry and should return a non zero
value if the directory entry should be included in the array.
If this pointer is
.SM NULL\s0,
then all the directory entries will be included.
The last argument is a pointer to a routine which is passed to
.BR qsort (3)
to sort the completed array. If this pointer is
.SM NULL\s0,
the array is not sorted.
.B alphasort(\|)
is a routine which will sort the array alphabetically.
.LP
.B scandir(\|)
returns the number of entries in the array and a pointer to the
array through the parameter
.I namelist.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR directory (3V),
.BR malloc (3V),
.BR qsort (3)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Returns \-1 if the directory cannot be opened for reading or if
.BR malloc (3V)
cannot allocate enough memory to hold all the data structures.
