.\" @(#)siginterrupt.3v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH SIGINTERRUPT 3V "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
siginterrupt \- allow signals to interrupt system calls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int siginterrupt(sig, flag)
int sig, flag;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "siginterrupt()"  ""  "\fLsiginterrupt()\fP \(em interrupt system calls with software signal"
.IX  "software signal"  ""  "interrupt system calls with software signal \(em \fLsiginterrupt()\fP"
.LP
.B siginterrupt(\|)
is used to change the system call restart
behavior when a system call is interrupted by the specified signal.
If the flag is false (0), then system calls will be restarted if
they are interrupted by the specified signal
and no data has been transferred yet.
System call restart is the default behavior on 4.2\s-1BSD\s0, and on Sun\s-1OS\s0 in
the 4.2 environment, when the
.B signal (3V)
routine is used.
.LP
If the flag is true (1), then restarting of system calls is disabled.
If a system call is interrupted by the specified signal
and no data has been transferred,
the system call will return \-1 with
.B errno
set to
.SM EINTR\s0.
Interrupted system calls that have started transferring
data will return the amount of data actually transferred.
System call interrupt is the signal behavior found on older
version of the
.SM UNIX
operating systems, such as 4.1\s-1BSD\s0 and System V
\s-1UNIX\s0.
It is the default behavior on Sun\s-1OS\s0
in the System V environment when the
.B signal(\|)
routine is used; therefore, this routine is useful in that environment
only if a signal that a
.BR sigvec (2)
specified should restart system calls is to be changed not to restart them.
.LP
Note: the new 4.2\s-1BSD\s0 signal handling semantics are not
altered in any other way.
Most notably, signal handlers always remain installed until
explicitly changed by a subsequent
.B sigvec(\|)
call, and the signal mask operates as documented in
.BR sigvec(\|) ,
unless the
.SB SV_RESETHAND
bit has been used to specify that the pre-4.2\s-1BSD\s0
signal behavior is to be used.
Programs may switch between restartable and interruptible
system call operation as often as desired in the execution of a program.
.LP
Issuing a
.B siginterrupt(\|)
call during the execution of a signal handler will cause
the new action to take place on the next signal to be caught.
.SH NOTES
.LP
This library routine uses an extension of the
.BR sigvec (2)
system call that is not available in 4.2\s-1BSD\s0,
hence it should not be used if backward compatibility is needed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B siginterrupt(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
if an invalid signal number was supplied.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sigblock (2),
.BR sigpause (2V),
.BR sigsetmask (2),
.BR sigvec (2),
.BR signal (3V)
