.\" @(#)sigsetops.3v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new for 4.1, POSIX
.TH SIGSETOPS 3V "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
sigsetops, sigaddset, sigdelset, sigfillset, sigemptyset, sigismember \- manipulate signal sets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <signal.h>
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int sigaddset(set, signo)
sigset_t *set;
int signo;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int sigdelset(set, signo)
sigset_t *set;
int signo;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int sigfillset(set)
sigset_t *set;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int sigemptyset(set)
sigset_t *set;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int sigismember(set, signo)
sigset_t *set
int signo;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "sigaddset()" "" "\fLsigaddset()\fR \(em manipulate signal sets" ""
.IX "sigdelset()" "" "\fLsigdelset()\fR \(em manipulate signal sets" ""
.IX "sigfillset()" "" "\fLsigfillset()\fR \(em manipulate signal sets" ""
.IX "sigemptyset()" "" "\fLsigemptyset()\fR \(em manipulate signal sets" ""
.IX "sigismember()" "" "\fLsigismember()\fR \(em manipulate signal sets" ""
.LP
The 
.B sigsetops
primitives manipulate sets of signals.
They operate on data objects 
addressable by the application.
They do not operate on any set of signals known to the system,
such as the set blocked from delivery to a process or the set
pending for a process.
.LP
.B sigaddset(\|)
and 
.B sigdelset(\|)
respectively add and delete the individual signal specified by 
the value of
.B signo
from the signal set pointed to by
.IR set .
.LP
.B sigemptyset(\|)
initializes the signal set pointed to by
.I set
such that all signals defined in this standard are excluded.
.LP
.B sigfillset(\|)
initializes the signal set pointed to by
.I set
such that all signals defined in this standard are included.
.LP
Applications shall call either 
.B sigemptyset(\|)
or 
.B sigfillset(\|)
at least once for each object of type
.B sigset_t
prior to any other use of that object.  If such an object is not initialized 
in this way, but is nonetheless supplied as an argument to any of
.BR sigaddset(\|) ,
.BR sigdelset(\|) ,
.BR sigismember(\|) ,
.BR sigaction(\|) ,
.BR sigprocmask(\|) ,
.BR sigpending(\|) ,
or
.BR sigsuspend(\|) 
the results are undefined.
.LP
.B sigismember(\|)
tests whether the signal specified by the value of
.B signo
is a member of the set pointed to by
.IR set .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B sigismember(\|)
returns:
.TP
1
if the specified signal is a member of
.IR set .
.TP
0
if the specified signal is not a member of
.IR set .
.TP
\-1
if an error is detected, and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.LP
The other functions
return:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and set
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
For each of the following conditions, if the condition is detected,
.BR sigaddset(\|) ,
.BR sigdelset(\|) ,
and 
.BR sigismember(\|) 
set 
.B errno
to:
.TP 15
.SM EINVAL
.B signo
is an invalid or unsupported signal number.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.BR sigaction (3V),
.BR sigpending (2V),
.BR sigprocmask (2V)
