.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)sleep.3v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 6.2 5/12/86
.TH SLEEP 3V "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
sleep \- suspend execution for interval
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int sleep(seconds)
unsigned seconds;
.ft
.fi
.IX  "sleep()"  ""  "\fLsleep()\fP \(em suspend execution"
.IX  "suspend execution for interval"  ""  "suspend execution \(em \fLsleep()\fP"
.IX  execution  "suspend for interval"
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
unsigned sleep(seconds)
unsigned seconds;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B sleep(\|)
suspends the current process from execution for the number
of seconds specified by the argument.
The actual suspension time
may be an arbitrary amount longer because of
other activity in the system.
.LP
.B sleep(\|)
is implemented by setting an interval timer and pausing until it
expires.
The previous state of this timer is saved and restored.
If the sleep time exceeds the time to the expiration of the previous value
of the timer, the process sleeps only until the timer would have
expired, and the signal which occurs with the expiration of the timer
is sent one second later.
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
.\" POSIX leaves many things regarding SIGALRM and signal-catching
.\" routines unspecified.  How do we handle them?
.LP
.B sleep(\|)
suspends the current process from execution until either
the number of real time seconds specified by
.I seconds
have elapsed or a signal is delivered to the calling process and its action
is to invoke a signal-catching function or to terminate the process.
The suspension time may be an arbitrary amount longer than requested
because of other activity in the system.
The value returned by
.B sleep(\|)
will be the \*(lqunslept\*(rq amount (the requested time minus the time
actually slept) in case the caller had an alarm set to go off
earlier than the end of the requested
.B sleep(\|)
time, or premature arousal due to another caught signal.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B sleep(\|)
returns no useful value.
.SH SYSTEM V RETURN VALUES
.LP
If
.B sleep(\|)
returns because the requested time has elapsed,
it returns 0.
If
.B sleep(\|)
returns due to the delivery of a signal,
it returns the \*(lqunslept\*(rq amount in seconds.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getitimer (2),
.BR sigpause (2V),
.BR usleep (3)
.SH NOTES
.LP
.SM SIGALRM
should
.I not
be blocked or ignored during a call to
.BR sleep(\|) .
Only a prior call to
.BR alarm (3V)
should generate
.SM SIGALRM
for the calling process during a call to
.BR sleep(\|) .
A signal-catching function should
.I not
interrupt a call to
.B sleep(\|)
to call
.B siglongjmp(\|)
or
.B longjmp(\|)
to restore an environment saved prior to the
.B sleep(\|)
call.
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
.B sleep(\|)
is slightly incompatible with
.BR alarm (3V).
Programs that do not execute for at least
one second of clock time between successive calls to
.B sleep(\|)
indefinitely delay the alarm signal.
Use System V
.BR sleep(\|) .
Each
.B sleep(3V)
call postpones the alarm signal that would
have been sent during the requested sleep period
to occur one second later.
