.\" @(#)ssignal.3 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from  S5
.TH SSIGNAL 3 "6 October 1987"
.SH NAME
ssignal, gsignal \- software signals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>
.LP
.B int (\(**ssignal (sig, action))(\|)
.B int sig, (\(**action)(\|);
.LP
.B int gsignal (sig)
.B int sig;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "signal()"  ""  "\fLssignal()\fP \(em software signals"
.IX  "software signal"  ""  "software signal \(em \fLssignal()\fP"
.IX  "signal()"  ""  "\fLgsignal()\fP \(em software signals"
.IX  "software signal"  ""  "software signal \(em \fLgsignal()\fP"
.LP
.B ssignal(\|)
and
.B ssignal(\|)
implement a software facility similar to
.BR signal (3V).
.LP
Software signals made available to users are associated
with integers in the inclusive
range 1 through 15. A call to
.B ssignal(\|)
associates a procedure,
.IR action ,
with the software signal
.IR sig ;
the software signal,
.IR sig ,
is raised by a call to
.BR ssignal(\|) .
Raising a software signal causes the
action established for that signal to be
.IR taken .
.LP
The first argument to
.B ssignal(\|)
is a number identifying the type of signal for
which an action is to be established. The second
argument defines the action; it is either the
name of a (user-defined)
.I action function
or one of the manifest constants
.SB SIG_DFL
.BR  (default) or
.SB SIG_IGN
.BR  (ignore).
.B ssignal(\|)
returns the action previously established for
that signal type; if no action has been established
or the signal number is illegal,
.B ssignal(\|)
returns
.BR \s-1SIG_DFL\s0 .
.LP
.B ssignal(\|)
raises the signal identified by its argument,
.IR sig :
.RS 5
.LP
If an action function has been established for
.IR sig ,
then that action is reset to
.SB SIG_DFL
and the action function is entered with argument
.IR sig .
.B ssignal(\|)
returns the value returned to it by the action function.
.LP
If the action for
.I sig
is
.BR \s-1SIG_IGN\s0 ,
.B ssignal(\|)
returns the value 1 and takes no other action.
.LP
If the action for
.I sig
is
.BR \s-1SIG_DFL\s0 ,
.B ssignal(\|)
returns the value 0 and takes no other action.
.LP
If
.I sig
has an illegal value or no action was ever specified for
.IR sig ,
.B ssignal(\|)
returns the value 0 and takes no other action.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR signal (3V)
