.\" @(#)strcoll.3 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new for 4.1 internationalization from xpg2
.TH STRCOLL 3 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
strcoll, strxfrm \- compare or transform strings using collating information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <string.h>
.ft R
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int strcoll(s1, s2)
char *s1;
char *s2;
.ft R
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
size_t strxfrm(s1, s2, n)
char *s1;
char *s2;
size_t n;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "strcoll()" "" "\fLstrcoll()\fR \(em compare strings using collating information" ""
.IX "strxfrm()" "" "\fLstrxfrm()\fR \(em transform strings using collating information" ""
.LP
.B strcoll(\|)
compares the string pointed to by
.I s1
to the string pointed to by
.IR s2 .
These strings are interpreted as appropriate to the
.SB LC_COLLATE
category of the current locale.
.LP
.B strxfrm(\|)
transforms the string pointed to by
.I s2
and places the resulting string into the array pointed to by
.IR s1 .
The transformation is such that if
.B string(\|)
is applied to two transformed strings,
it returns a value greater than, equal to, or less than zero,
corresponding to the result of the
.B strcoll(\|)
function applied to the same two original strings.
No more than
.I n
characters are placed into the resulting array pointed to by
.IR s1 ,
including the terminating null character.
If
.I n
is zero,
.I s1
is permitted to be a null pointer.
If copying takes place between objects that overlap, the behavior is undefined.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
On success,
.B strcoll(\|)
returns an integer greater than, equal to or less than zero, 
respectively, if the string pointed to by
.I s1
is greater than, equal to or less than the string pointed to by
.I s2
when both are interpreted as appropriate to the current locale.
On failure,
.B strcoll(\|)
sets
.B errno
to indicate the error, but returns no special value.
.LP
.B strxfrm(\|)
returns the length of the transformed string,
not including the terminating null character.
If the value returned is 
.I n
or more, the contents of the array pointed to by
.I s1
are indeterminate.
On failure,
.B strxfrm(\|)
returns
.BR (size_t) \-1,
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EINVAL
.I s1
or
.I s2
contain characters outside the domain of the collating sequence.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR string (3)
