.\" @(#)t_alloc.3n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5r3
.TH T_ALLOC 3N "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
t_alloc \- allocate a library structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <tiuser.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
char *t_alloc(fd, struct_type, fields)
int fd;
int struct_type;
int fields;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "t_alloc()" "" "\fLt_alloc()\fR \(em allocate a library structure" ""
.IX allocate "a library structure"
.IX transport "allocate a library structure"
.LP
.B t_alloc(\|)
dynamically allocates memory for the
various transport function argument structures as specified below.
.B t_alloc(\|)
allocates memory for the specified structure and
for buffers referenced by the structure.
.LP
The structure to allocate is specified by
.IR struct_type ,
and can be one of the following (each of of these 
structures may be used as an argument
to one or more transport functions):
.PD 0
.RS
.ft B
.nf
\s-1T_BIND\s0		 struct t_bind
\s-1T_CALL\s0		 struct t_call
\s-1T_OPTMGMT\s0	 struct t_optmgmt
\s-1T_DIS\s0 		 struct t_discon
\s-1T_UNITDATA\s0 	 struct t_unitdata
\s-1T_UDERROR\s0	 struct t_uderr
\s-1T_INFO\s0		 struct t_info
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.PD
.LP
Each of the above structures, except
.BR \s-1T_INFO\s0 ,
contains at least one field of type
.RB ` "struct netbuf" '.
The
.IR maxlen , 
.IR len , 
and 
.I buf
members of the 
.B netbuf 
structure are described in 
.BR t_accept (3N).
For each field of this type, the user may specify that
the buffer for that field should be allocated as well.
The
.I fields
argument specifies this option, where the argument is the
bitwise\-\s-1OR\s0 of any of the following:
.RS
.TP 10
.PD 0
.SB T_ADDR
The
.I addr
field of the
.BR t_bind ,
.BR t_call ,
.BR t_unitdata ,
or
.B t_uderr
structures.
.TP
.SB T_OPT
The
.I opt
field of the
.BR t_optmgmt ,
.BR t_call ,
.BR t_unitdata ,
or
.B t_uderr
structures.
.TP
.SB T_UDATA
The
.I udata
field of the
.BR t_call ,
.BR t_discon ,
or
.B t_unitdata
structures.
.TP
.SB T_ALL
All relevant fields of the given structure.
.RE
.PD
.LP
For each field specified in
.IR fields ,
.B t_alloc(\|)
allocates memory for the buffer associated with the field,
and initializes the
.I buf
pointer and
.I maxlen
field accordingly.
The length of the buffer allocated is based on the same size
information returned to the user on
.BR t_open (3N)
and
.BR t_getinfo (3N).
Thus,
.I fd
must refer to the transport endpoint through which the newly
allocated structure is passed, so that the appropriate
size information can be accessed.
If the size value associated with any specified field is \-1 or \-2
(see
.BR t_open (3N)
or
.BR t_getinfo (3N)),
.B t_alloc(\|)
is unable to determine the size of the buffer
to allocate and fails,
setting
.B t_errno
to
.SM TSYSERR
and
.B errno
to
.SM EINVAL .
For any field not specified in
.IR fields ,
.I buf
is set to
.SM NULL\s0
and
.I maxlen
is set to zero.
.LP
Use of
.B t_alloc(\|)
to allocate structures helps ensure the compatibility of user
programs with future releases of the transport interface.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
On success,
.B t_alloc(\|)
returns a pointer to the type of structure specified by
.BR struct_type .
On failure,
it returns
.SM NULL
and sets
.B t_errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM TBADF
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport
endpoint.
.TP
.SM TSYSERR
The function failed due to a system error and set 
.B errno 
to indicate the error.
.br
.ne 5
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR intro (3),
.BR t_free (3N),
.BR t_getinfo (3N),
.BR t_open (3N)
.LP
.TX NETP
