.\" @(#)t_close.3n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5r3
.TH T_CLOSE 3N "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
t_close \- close a transport endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <tiuser.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int t_close(fd)
int fd;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "t_close()" "" "\fLt_close()\fR \(em close a transport endpoint"
.IX transport "close transport endpoint"
.IX close "transport endpoint"
.LP
.B t_close(\|)
informs the transport provider that the user is finished
with the transport endpoint specified by
.IR fd ,
and frees any local library resources associated with the endpoint.
In addition,
.B t_close(\|)
closes the file associated with the transport endpoint.
.LP
.B t_close(\|)
should be called from the
.SB T_UNBND
state (see
.BR t_getstate (3N)).
However, 
.B t_close(\|)
does not check state information,
so it may be called from any state to close a transport endpoint.
If this occurs, the local library resources associated with the endpoint
will be freed automatically.
In addition,
.BR close (2V)
will be issued for that file descriptor; the close will be
abortive if no other process has that file open, and will break any
transport connection that may be associated with that endpoint.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B t_close(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B t_errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM TBADF
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR close (2V),
.BR t_getstate (3N),
.BR t_open (3N),
.BR t_unbind (3N)
.LP
.TX NETP
