.\" @(#)t_free.3n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5r3
.TH T_FREE 3N "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
t_free \- free a library structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <tiuser.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int t_free(ptr, struct_type)
char *ptr;
int struct_type;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "t_free()" "" "\fLt_free()\fR \(em free a library structure" ""
.IX transport "free a library structure"
.IX free "transport library structure"
.LP
.B t_free(\|)
frees memory previously allocated by
.BR t_alloc (3N) .
This function will free memory for the specified structure, and
will also free memory for buffers referenced by the structure.
.LP
.I ptr
points to one of the six structure types described for
.BR t_alloc (3N),
and
.I struct_type
identifies the type of that structure which can be one
of the following:
.RS
.nf
.ft B
\s-1T_BIND\s0		 struct t_bind
\s-1T_CALL\s0		 struct t_call
\s-1T_OPTMGMT\s0	 struct t_optmgmt
\s-1T_DIS\s0		 struct t_discon
\s-1T_UNITDATA\s0	 struct t_unitdata
\s-1T_UDERROR\s0	 struct t_uderr
\s-1T_INFO\s0		 struct t_info
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
where each of these structures is used as an argument to one or
more transport functions.
.LP
.B t_free(\|)
checks the
.IR addr ,
.IR opt ,
and
.I udata
fields of the given structure (as appropriate), and frees the
buffers pointed to by the
.I buf
field of the
.I netbuf
(see
.BR intro (3))
structure.
The
.IR maxlen , 
.IR len , 
and 
.I buf
members of the 
.I netbuf 
structure are described in 
.BR t_accept (3N).
If
.I buf
is
.SM NULL\s0,
.B t_free(\|)
will not attempt to free memory.
After all buffers are freed,
.B t_free(\|)
will free the memory associated with the structure pointed to by
.IR ptr .
.LP
Undefined results will occur if
.I ptr
or any of the
.I buf
pointers points to a block of memory that was not previously
allocated by
.BR t_alloc (3N).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B t_free(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B t_errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM TSYSERR
The function failed due to a system error and set 
.B errno 
to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR intro (3),
.BR t_alloc (3N)
.LP
.TX NETP
