.\" @(#)t_rcvdis.3n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5r3
.TH T_RCVDIS 3N "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
t_rcvdis \- retrieve information from disconnect
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <tiuser.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
t_rcvdis(fd, discon)
int fd;
struct t_discon *discon;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "t_rcvdis()" "" "\fLt_rcvdis()\fR \(em retrieve information from disconnect"
.IX transport "retrieve information from disconnect"
.IX disconnect "retrieve information from"
.LP
.B t_rcvdis(\|)
is used to identify the cause of a disconnect, and
to retrieve any user data sent with the disconnect.
.I fd
identifies the local transport endpoint where the connection existed,
and
.I discon
points to a
.B t_discon
structure defined in 
.B <nettli/tiuser.>
as:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
struct t_discon {
.ft
.RS
.ft B
struct netbuf udata;		/* user data */
int reason;			/* reason code */
int sequence;			/* sequence number */
.ft
.RE
.ft B
};
.ft
.fi
.RE
.LP
The
.IR maxlen ,
.IR len ,
and
.I buf
members of the
.I netbuf
structure are described in
.BR t_accept (3N).
.I reason
specifies the reason for the disconnect
through a protocol-dependent reason code,
.I udata
identifies any user data that was sent with the disconnect, and
.I sequence
may identify an outstanding connect indication with which the disconnect is
associated.
.I sequence
is only meaningful when
.B t_rcvdis(\|)
is issued by a passive transport user who has executed one or more
.B t_listen(3N)
functions and is processing the resulting connect indications.
If a disconnect indication occurs,
.I sequence
can be used to identify which of the outstanding connect indications is
associated with the disconnect.
.LP
If a user does not care if there is incoming data and does not need to
know the value of
.I reason
or
.IR sequence ,
.I discon
may be
.SM NULL
and any user data associated with the disconnect will be discarded.
However, if a user has retrieved
more than one outstanding connect indication (using
.BR t_listen (3N))
and
.I discon
is
.SM NULL\s0,
the user will be unable to identify with which connect indication the
disconnect is associated.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B t_rcvdis(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B t_errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 20
.SM TBADF
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
.SM TBUFOVFLW
The number of bytes allocated for incoming data is not
sufficient to store the data.
The provider's state, as seen by the user, will change to
.SB T_IDLE
and the disconnect indication information to be returned in
.I discon
will be discarded.
.TP
.SM TNODIS
No disconnect indication currently exists on the specified
transport endpoint.
.TP
.SM TNOTSUPPORT
This function is not supported by the underlying transport
provider.
.TP
.SM TSYSERR
The function failed due to a system error and set 
.B errno 
to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR intro (3),
.BR t_connect (3N),
.BR t_listen (3N),
.BR t_open (3N),
.BR t_snddis (3N)
.LP
.TX NETP
