.\" @(#)t_rcvuderr.3n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5r3
.TH T_RCVUDERR 3N "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
t_rcvuderr \- receive a unit data error indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <tiuser.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int t_rcvuderr(fd, uderr)
int fd;
struct t_uderr *uderr;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "t_rcvuderr()" "" "\fLt_rcvuderr()\fR \(em receive unit data error indication" ""
.IX transport "receive a unit data error indication"
.IX receive "transport unit data error indication"
.LP
.B t_rcvuderr(\|)
is used in connectionless mode
to receive information concerning an error
on a previously sent data unit, and
should only be issued following a unit data error indication.
It informs the transport user that a data unit with a specific
destination address and protocol options produced an error.
.I fd
identifies the local transport endpoint through which the error
report will be received, and
.I uderr
points to a
.B t_uderr(\|)
structure defined in
.B <nettli/tiuser.h>
as:
.nf
.RS
.ft B
struct t_uderr {
	struct netbuf addr;			/* address	*/
	struct netbuf opt;			/* options	*/
	long  error;				/* error code	*/
};
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
The
.IR maxlen ,
.IR len ,
and
.I buf
members of the
.I netbuf
structure are described in
.BR t_accept (3N).
The
.I maxlen
field of
.I addr
and
.I opt
must be set before issuing this function to indicate the maximum
size of the buffer for each.
.LP
On return from this call, the
.I addr
structure specifies the destination protocol address of the erroneous data
unit, the
.I opt
structure identifies protocol-specific options that were
associated with the data unit, and
.B error
specifies a protocol-dependent error code.
.LP
If the user does not care to identify the data unit
that produced an error,
.I uderr
may be set to
.SM NULL
and
.B t_rcvuderr(\|)
will simply clear the error indication without reporting any
information to the user.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B t_rcvuderr(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B t_errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 20
.SM TBADF
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
.SM TBUFOVFLW
The number of bytes allocated for the incoming protocol address or
options is not sufficient to store the information.
The unit data error information to be returned in
.I uderr
will be discarded.
.TP
.SM TNOTSUPPORT
This function is not supported by the underlying transport
provider.
.TP
.SM TNOUDERR
No unit data error indication currently exists on the specified
transport endpoint.
.TP
.SM TSYSERR
The function failed due to a system error and set 
.B errno 
to indicate the error.
.br
.ne 5
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR intro (3),
.BR t_rcvudata (3N),
.BR t_sndudata (3N)
.LP
.TX NETP
