.\" @(#)t_rcvrel.3n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5r3
.TH T_RCVREL 3N "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
t_rcvrel \- acknowledge receipt of an orderly release indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <tiuser.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int t_rcvrel(fd)
int fd;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "t_rcvrel()" "" "\fLt_rcvrel()\fR \(em acknowledge orderly release indication" ""
.IX "transport" "acknowledge orderly release indication"
.LP
.B t_rcvel(\|)
acknowledges receipt of an orderly release indication.
.I fd
identifies the local transport endpoint where the connection exists.
After receipt of this indication, the user may not attempt to
receive more data because such an attempt will block forever.
However, the user may continue to send data over the connection if
.BR t_sndrel (3N)
has not been issued by the user.
.LP
.B t_rcvrel(\|)
is an optional service of the transport provider,
and is only supported if the transport provider returned service
type
.SB T_COTS_ORD
on
.BR t_open (3N)
or
.BR t_getinfo (3N).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B t_rcvrel(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B t_errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 20
.SM TBADF
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
.SM TLOOK
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint and requires
immediate attention.
.TP
.SM TNOREL
No orderly release indication currently exists on the specified
transport endpoint.
.TP
.SM TNOTSUPPORT
This function is not supported by the underlying transport
provider.
.TP
.SM TSYSERR
The function failed due to a system error and set 
.B errno 
to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR t_open (3N),
.BR t_sndrel (3N)
.LP
.TX NETP
