.\" @(#)t_sndrel.3n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5r3
.TH T_SNDREL 3N "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
t_sndrel \- initiate an orderly release
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <tiuser.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int t_sndrel(fd)
int fd;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "t_sndrel()" "" "\fLt_sndrel()\fR \(em initiate an orderly release" ""
.IX "transport" "initiate an orderly release"
.IX release "transport connection in orderly manner"
.LP
.B t_sndrel(\|)
initiates an orderly release of a transport connection
and indicates to the transport provider that
the transport user has no more data to send.
.I fd
identifies the local transport endpoint where the connection exists.
After issuing
.BR t_sndrel(\|) ,
the user may not send any more data over the connection.
However, a user may continue to receive data if an
orderly release indication has been received.
.LP
.B t_sndrel(\|)
is an optional service of the transport provider,
and is only supported if the transport provider returned service
type
.SB T_COTS_ORD
on
.BR t_open (3N)
or
.BR t_getinfo (3N).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B t_sndrel(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B t_errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 20
.SM TBADF
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
.SM TFLOW
.SB O_NDELAY
was set, but
the flow control mechanism prevented the transport provider from
accepting the function at this time.
.TP
.SM TNOTSUPPORT
This function is not supported by the underlying transport
provider.
.TP
.SM TSYSERR
The function failed due to a system error and set 
.B errno 
to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR t_open (3N),
.BR t_rcvrel (3N)
.LP
.TX NETP
