.\" %Z%%M% %I% %E% SMI; from S5r3
.TH T_SNDUDATA 3N "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
t_sndudata \- send a data unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <tiuser.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int t_sndudata(fd, unitdata)
int fd;
struct t_unitdata *unitdata;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "t_sndudata()" "" "\fLt_sndudata()\fR \(em send data unit to transport user" ""
.IX transport "send data unit"
.IX send "data unit to transport user"
.LP
.B t_sndudata(\|)
is used in connectionless mode
to send a data unit to another transport
user.
.I fd
identifies the local transport endpoint through which data will be
sent, and
.I unitdata
points to a
.B t_unitdata
structure defined in
.B <nettli/tiuser.h>
as:
.RS
.ft B
.nf
struct t_unitdata {
	struct netbuf addr;			/* address		*/
	struct netbuf opt;			/* options		*/
	struct netbuf udata;		/* user data		*/
};
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
The
.IR maxlen ,
.IR len ,
and
.I buf
members of the
.I netbuf
structure are described in
.BR t_accept (3N).
In
.IR unitdata ,
.I addr
specifies the protocol address of the destination user,
.I opt
identifies protocol-specific options that the user wants
associated with this request, and
.I udata
specifies the user data to be sent.
The user may choose not to specify what protocol
options are associated with the transfer by setting the
.I len
field of
.I opt
to 0.
In this case, the provider may use default options.
.LP
If the
.I len
field of
.I udata
is 0, no data unit will be passed to the transport provider;
.B t_sndudata(\|)
will not send zero-length data units.
.LP
By default,
.B t_sndudata(\|)
operates in synchronous mode and
may wait if flow control restrictions prevent the data from
being accepted by the local transport provider at the time
the call is made.
However, if
.SB T_NDELAY
is set (using
.BR t_open (3N)
or
.BR fcntl(\|) ),
.B t_sndudata(\|)
will execute in asynchronous mode and will fail
under such conditions.
.LP
If
.B t_sndudata(\|)
is issued from an invalid state,
or if the amount of data specified in
.I udata
exceeds the
.SM TSDU
size as returned by
.B t_open(\|)
or
.BR t_getinfo (3N),
the provider will generate an
.SM EPROTO
protocol error.
See
.SM TSYSERR
below.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B t_sndudata(\|)
returns:
.TP
0
on success.
.TP
\-1
on failure and sets
.B t_errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 20
.SM TBADF
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
.SM TFLOW
.SB T_NDELAY
was set, but
the flow control mechanism prevented the transport provider from
accepting data at this time.
.TP
.SM TNOTSUPPORT
This function is not supported by the underlying transport
provider.
.TP
.SM TSYSERR
The function failed due to a system error and set 
.B errno 
to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR intro (3),
.BR t_rcvudata (3N),
.BR t_rcvuderr (3N)
.LP
.TX NETP
