.\" @(#)t_sync.3n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5r3
.TH T_SYNC 3N "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
t_sync \- synchronize transport library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <tiuser.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int t_sync(fd)
int fd;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "t_sync()" "" "\fLt_sync()\fR \(em synchronize transport library" ""
.IX synchronize "transport library"
.IX transport "synchronize transport library"
.LP
For the transport endpoint specified by
.IR fd ,
.B t_sync(\|)
synchronizes the data structures managed by the transport library
with information from the underlying transport provider.
In doing so, it can convert a raw file descriptor
(obtained using
.BR open (2V),
.BR dup (2V),
or as a result of a
.BR fork (2V)
and
.BR execve (2V))
to an initialized transport endpoint, assuming that file descriptor referenced
a transport provider.
.B t_sync(\|)
also allows two cooperating processes to synchronize their
interaction with a transport provider.
.LP
For example, if a process
.I forks
a new process and issues an
.IR exec ,
the new process must issue a
.B t_sync(\|)
to build the private library data structure associated with a
transport endpoint and to synchronize the data structure
with the relevant provider information.
.LP
It is important to remember that the transport provider treats
all users of a transport endpoint as a single user.
If multiple processes are using the same endpoint, they should
coordinate their activities so as not to violate the state of the
provider.
.B t_sync(\|)
returns the current state of the provider to the user, thereby
enabling the user to verify the state before taking further
action.
This coordination is only valid among cooperating processes;
it is possible that a process or an incoming event could change the provider's state
.I after
a
.B t_sync(\|)
is issued.
.LP
If the provider is undergoing a state transition when
.B t_sync(\|)
is called, the function will fail.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B t_sync(\|)
returns \-1 on failure.
Upon success, the state of the transport provider is returned;
it may be one of the following:
.RS
.TP 15
.SB T_IDLE
idle
.TP 15
.SB T_OUTCON
outgoing connection pending
.TP 15
.SB T_INCON
incoming connection pending
.TP 15
.SB T_DATAXFER
data transfer
.TP 15
.SB T_OUTREL
outgoing orderly release (waiting for an orderly release indication)
.TP 15
.SB T_INREL
incoming orderly release (waiting for an orderly release request)
.TP 15
.SB T_UNBND
unbound
.RE
.SH ERRORS
.TP 20
.SM TBADF
The specified file descriptor is a valid open file descriptor but
does not refer to a transport
endpoint.
.TP
.SM TSTATECHNG
The transport provider is undergoing a state change.
.TP
.SM TSYSERR
The function failed due to a system error and set 
.B errno 
to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dup (2V),
.BR execve (2V),
.BR fork (2V),
.BR open (2V)
.LP
.TX NETP
