.\" @(#)xdr.3n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new on release 3.0
.TH XDR 3N "16 February 1988"
.SH NAME
xdr \- library routines for external data representation
.SH SYNOPSIS AND DESCRIPTION
.IX "xdr networking functions"  "" "\fLxdr()\fP networking functions"
.LP
.SM XDR
routines allow C programmers to describe
arbitrary data structures in a machine-independent fashion.
Data for remote procedure calls 
(\s-1RPC\s0) are encoded and decoded using these
routines.
See
.BR rpc (3N).
.LP
All
.SM XDR
routines require the header
.B <rpc/xdr.h>
to be included.
.LP
The
.SM XDR
routines have been grouped by usage on the following man pages.
.TP 20
.BR xdr_admin (3N)
Library routines for managing the
.SM XDR
stream.
The routines documented on this page include:
.RS 25
.nf
.ft B
xdr_getpos(\|)
xdr_inline(\|)
xdrrec_endofrecord(\|)
xdrrec_eof(\|)
xdrrec_readbytes(\|)
xdrrec_skiprecord(\|)
xdr_setpos(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BR xdr_complex (3N)
Library routines for translating complex data types
into their external data representation.
The routines documented on this page include:
.RS 25
.nf
.ft B
xdr_array(\|)
xdr_bytes(\|)
xdr_opaque(\|)
xdr_pointer(\|)
xdr_reference(\|)
xdr_string(\|)
xdr_union(\|)
xdr_vector(\|)
xdr_wrapstring(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BR xdr_create (3N)
Library routines for creating 
.SM XDR
streams.
The routines documented on this page include:
.RS 25
.nf
.ft B
xdr_destroy(\|)
xdrmem_create(\|)
xdrrec_create(\|)
xdrstdio_create(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BR xdr_simple (3N)
Library routines for translating simple data types
into their external data representation.
The routines documented on this page include:
.RS 25
.nf
.ft B
xdr_bool(\|)
xdr_char(\|)
xdr_double(\|)
xdr_enum(\|)
xdr_float(\|)
xdr_free(\|)
xdr_int(\|)
xdr_long(\|)
xdr_short(\|)
xdr_u_char(\|)
xdr_u_int(\|)
xdr_u_long(\|)
xdr_u_short(\|)
xdr_void(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rpc (3N),
.BR xdr_admin (3N),
.BR xdr_complex (3N),
.BR xdr_create (3N),
.BR xdr_simple (3N)
.LP
.TX NETP
