.\" @(#)ypupdate.3n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH YPUPDATE 3N  "6 October 1987"
.SH NAME
yp_update \- changes NIS information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <rpcsvc/ypclnt.h>
.LP
.ft B
yp_update(domain, map, ypop, key, keylen, data, datalen)
char *domain;
char *map;
unsigned ypop
char *key;
int keylen;
char *data;
int datalen;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "yp_update()" "" "\fLyp_update()\fP \(em change NIS information"
.LP
.B yp_update(\|)
is used to make changes to the
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
database.
The syntax is the same as that of
.B yp_match(\|)
(see
.BR ypclnt (3N))
except for the extra parameter
.I ypop
which may take on one of four values.
If it is
.SB YPOP_CHANGE
then the data associated with the key will
be changed to the new value.
If the key is not found in the database, then
.B yp_update(\|)
returns
.BR \s-1YPERR_KEY\s0 .
If
.I ypop
has the value
.SB YPOP_INSERT
then the key-value pair will be inserted
into the database.
The error
.SB YPERR_KEY
is returned if the key already exists in the database.
To store an item into the database without
concern for whether it exists already or not, pass
.I ypop
as
.SB YPOP_STORE
and no error will be returned if the key
already or does not exist.
To delete an entry, the value of
.I ypop
should be
.BR \s-1YPOP_DELETE\s0 .
.LP
This routine depends upon secure
.SM RPC\s0,
and will not work unless the network is running secure
.SM RPC\s0.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ypclnt (3N)
.LP
.TX ADMIN
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
The name Yellow Pages is a registered trademark in the United Kingdom
of British Telecommunications plc,
and may not be used without permission.
