.\" @(#)acct.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2
.TH ACCT 8 "13 January 1990"
.SH NAME
acctdisk, acctdusg, accton, acctwtmp \- overview of accounting and miscellaneous accounting commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/acct/acctdisk
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/acctdusg
[
.BI \-u " filename"
] [
.BI \-p " filename"
]
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/accton
[
.I filename
]
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/acctwtmp
.I reason
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "acct" "" "\fLacct\fP \(em miscellaneous accounting commands" ""
.IX "acctdisk" "" "\fLacctdisk\fP \(em create disk usage records" ""
.IX "acctdusg" "" "\fLacctdusg\fP \(em compute disk usage by login" ""
.IX "accton" "" "\fLaccton\fP \(em turn on process accounting" ""
.\" .IX "acctwtmp" "" "\fLacctwtmp\fP \(em "
.LP
Accounting software is structured as a set of tools
(consisting of both C programs and shell procedures)
that can be used
to build accounting systems.
.BR acctsh (8)
describes the set of shell procedures built on top of
the C programs.
.LP
Connect time accounting is handled by various programs that write
records into
.BR /etc/utmp ,
as described in
.BR utmp (5V).
The programs described in
.BR acctcon (8)
convert this file into session and charging records,
which are then summarized by
.BR acctmerg (8).
.LP
Process accounting is performed by the
.SM UNIX
system kernel.
Upon termination of a process,
one record per process is written to a file
(normally
.BR /var/adm/pacct ).
The programs in
.BR acctprc (8)
summarize this data for charging purposes;
.BR acctcms (8)
is used to summarize command usage.
Current process data may be examined using
.BR acctcom (1).
.LP
Process accounting and connect time accounting (or any accounting records
in the format described in
.BR acct (5))
can be merged and summarized into total accounting records by
.B acctmerg
(see
.B tacct
format in
.BR acct (5)).
.B prtacct
(see
.BR acctsh (8))
is used to format any or all accounting records.
.LP
.B acctdisk
reads lines that contain user
.SM ID\*S,
login name, and number of
disk blocks and converts them to total accounting
records that can be merged with other accounting records.
.LP
.B acctdusg
reads its standard input (usually from
.RB ` "find / \-print" ')
and computes disk resource consumption
(including indirect blocks) by login.
.LP
.B accton
without arguments turns process accounting off.
If
.I filename
is given,
it must be the name of an existing file,
to which the kernel appends process accounting records
(see
.BR acct (2V)
and
.BR acct (5)).
You must be super-user to use this command.
.LP
.B acctwtmp
writes a
.BR utmp (5V)
record to its standard output.
The record contains the current time
and
a string of characters that describe the
.IR reason .
The login name for this record is set to
.B @@acct
(see
.BR utmp (5V)).
.I reason
must be a string of 8 or fewer characters, numbers,
.BR $ ,
or
.SM SPACE
characters.
If 
.I reason
contains a
.SM SPACE
character, it must be enclosed in double quotes.
For example, the following are suggestions
for use in reboot and shutdown procedures, respectively:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
acctwtmp \|\*`uname\*` \|>> /var/adm/wtmp
.ft R
.br
.ft B
acctwtmp \|fsave \|>> /var/adm/wtmp
.ft R
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.SS acctdusg
.TP
.BI \-u " filename"
Place records consisting of those file names for which
.B acctdusg
charges no one in
.I filename
(a potential source for finding users trying to avoid disk charges).
.TP
.BI \-p " filename"
Use
.I filename
as the password file, rather than
.BR /etc/passwd .
(See
.BR diskusg (8)
for more details.)
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/passwd
used for login name to user
.SM ID
conversions
.TP
.B /usr/lib/acct
holds all accounting commands listed in section 8 of this manual
.TP
.B /var/adm/pacct
current process accounting file
.TP
.B /var/adm/wtmp
login/logoff history file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acctcom (1),
.BR acct (2V),
.BR acct (5),
.BR utmp (5V),
.BR acctcms (8),
.BR acctcon (8),
.BR acctmerg (8),
.BR acctprc (8),
.BR acctsh (8),
.BR diskusg (8),
.BR fwtmp (8),
.BR runacct (8)
