.\" @(#)acctsh.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2
.TH ACCTSH 8 "17 January 1990"
.SH NAME
chargefee, ckpacct, dodisk, lastlogin, monacct, nulladm, prctmp, prdaily, prtacct, runacct, shutacct, startup, turnacct \- shell procedures for accounting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/acct/chargefee
.I login-name
.I number
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/ckpacct
[
.I blocks
]
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/dodisk
[
.B \-o
] [
.IR filename \|.\|.\|.
]
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/lastlogin
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/monacct
.I number
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/nulladm
.I filename
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/prctmp
.I filename
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/prdaily
[
.B \-cl
] [
.I mmdd
]
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/prtacct
.I filename
[
.I heading
]
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/runacct
[
.I mmdd
] [
.I mmdd state
]
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/shutacct
[
.I reason
]
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/startup
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/turnacct
.BR on \||\| off \||\| switch
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "chargefee" "" "\fLchargefee\fP \(em accounting shell procedure" ""
.IX "ckpacct" "" "\fLckpacct\fP \(em accounting shell procedure" ""
.IX "dodisk" "" "\fLdodisk\fP \(em accounting shell procedure" ""
.IX "lastlogin" "" "\fLlastlogin\fP \(em accounting shell procedure" ""
.IX "monacct" "" "\fLmonacct\fP \(em accounting shell procedure" ""
.IX "nulladm" "" "\fLnulladm\fP \(em accounting shell procedure" ""
.IX "prctmp" "" "\fLprctmp\fP \(em accounting shell procedure" ""
.IX "prdaily" "" "\fLprdaily\fP \(em accounting shell procedure" ""
.IX "prtacct" "" "\fLprtacct\fP \(em accounting shell procedure" ""
.IX "runacct" "" "\fLrunacct\fP \(em accounting shell procedure" ""
.IX "shutacct" "" "\fLshutacct\fP \(em accounting shell procedure" ""
.IX "startup" "" "\fLstartup\fP \(em accounting shell procedure" ""
.IX "turnacct" "" "\fLturnacct\fP \(em accounting shell procedure" ""
.IX "accounting shell procedures" "chargefee" "" "\fLchargefee\fP"
.IX "accounting shell procedure" "ckpacct" "" "\fLckpacct\fP"
.IX "accounting shell procedures" "dodisk" "" "\fLdodisk\fP"
.IX "accounting shell procedures" "lastlogin" "" "\fLlastlogin\fP"
.IX "accounting shell procedures" "monacct" "" "\fLmonacct\fP"
.IX "accounting shell procedures" "nulladm" "" "\fLnulladm\fP"
.IX "accounting shell procedures" "prctmp" "" "\fLprctmp\fP"
.IX "accounting shell procedures" "prdaily" "" "\fLprdaily\fP"
.IX "accounting shell procedures" "prtacct" "" "\fLprtacct\fP"
.IX "accounting shell procedures" "runacct" "" "\fLrunacct\fP"
.IX "accounting shell procedures" "shutacct" "" "\fLshutacct\fP"
.IX "accounting shell procedures" "startup" "" "\fLstartup\fP"
.IX "accounting shell procedures" "turnacct" "" "\fLturnacct\fP"
.IX "acctsh" "" "\fLacctsh\fP \(em shell procedures for accounting"
.SS chargefee
.LP
.B chargefee
can be invoked to charge a
.I number
of units to
.IR login-name .
A record is written to
.BR /var/adm/fee ,
to be merged with other accounting records during the night.
.SS ckpacct
.LP
.B ckpacct
should be initiated by
.BR cron (8)
every hour.
It periodically checks the size of
.BR /var/adm/pacct .
If the size exceeds
.IR blocks ,
1000 by default,
.B turnacct
is called with the argument
.BR switch .
If the number of free disk blocks in the
.B /usr
file system
falls below 500,
.B ckpacct
automatically turns off the collection of
process accounting records using the
.B off
argument to
.BR turnacct .
When at least this number of blocks is restored, 
accounting is activated again.
This feature is sensitive to the frequency at which
.B ckpacct
is executed, usually by
.BR cron .
.SS dodisk
.LP
.B dodisk
should be executed by
.B cron
to perform the disk accounting functions.
By default, it does disk accounting on the 4.2 file systems in
.BR /etc/fstab .
.IR filename s
specify the one or more filesystem names where disk accounting
will be done.
If
.IR filename s
are used, disk accounting will be done on these
filesystems only.
They should be the special file names of mountable filesystems.
.SS lastlogin
.LP
.B lastlogin
is invoked by
.B runacct
to update
.BR /var/adm/acct/sum/loginlog ,
which shows the last date on which each person logged in.
.B lastlogin
deletes the entries of users no longer in
.B /etc/passwd
and creates new entries.
.SS monacct
.LP
.B monacct
should be invoked once each month or each accounting
period.
.I number
indicates
which month or period it is.
If
.I number
is not given, it defaults to the
current month (01\-12).
This default is useful if
.B monacct
is executed by
.BR cron (8)
on the first day of each month.
.B monacct
creates summary files in
.B /var/adm/acct/fiscal
and restarts summary files in
.BR /var/adm/acct/sum .
.SS nulladm
.LP
.B nulladm
creates
.I filename
with mode 664 and insures that owner and group are
.BR adm .
It is called by
various accounting shell procedures.
.SS prctmp
.LP
.B prctmp
can be used to print the session record file with headings 
(normally
.B /var/adm/acct/nite/ctmp
created by
.B acctcon1
(see
.BR acctcon (8)).
The heading specifies device, user
.SM ID\s0,
login name, prime connect time (in seconds), non-prime
connect time (in seconds), session starting time (numeric)
and starting date and time.
.SS prdaily
.LP
.B prdaily
is invoked by
.B runacct
to format a report of the previous day's accounting data.
The report resides in
.BI /var/adm/acct/sum/rprt mmdd
where
.I mmdd
is the month and day of the report.
The current daily accounting reports may be printed by typing
.BR prdaily .
Previous days' accounting reports can be printed by using the
.I mmdd
option and specifying the exact report date desired.
Previous daily reports are cleaned up
and therefore inaccessible after each invocation of
.BR monacct .
.SS prtacct
.LP
.B prtacct
can be used to format and print any total accounting
.RB ( tacct )
file with headings.
See Chapter 8
in the
.TX ADMIN 
manual,
for an explanation of this output.
.SS runacct
.LP
.B runacct
performs the accumulation of connect,
process,
fee,
and disk accounting on a daily basis.
It also creates summaries of command usage.
For more information, see
.BR runacct (8).
.SS shutacct
.LP
.B shutacct
should be invoked during a system shutdown
(usually in
.BR /etc/shutdown )
to turn process accounting
off and append a
\*(lqreason\*(rq record to
.BR /var/adm/wtmp .
If
.I reason
is not specified,
.B shutdown
is provided as a default reason.
.SS startup
.LP
.B startup
should be called by
.B /etc/rc
to turn the accounting on
whenever the system is brought up.
.SS turnacct
.LP
.B turnacct
is an interface to
.B accton
(see
.BR acct (8))
to turn process accounting
.B on
or
.BR off .
The
.B switch
argument
turns accounting off,
moves the current
.B /var/adm/pacct
to the next free name in
.BI /var/adm/pacct incr
(where
.I incr
is a number starting with
.B 1
and incrementing by one for each
additional
.B pacct
file),
then turns accounting back on again.
This procedure is called by
.B ckpacct
and thus can be taken care of by
.B cron
and used to keep
.B pacct
to a reasonable size.
This command is restricted to the super-user.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS dodisk
.TP
.B \-o
Do a slower version of disk accounting
by login directory.
.IR filename s
should be mount points of mounted filesystem.
.SS prdaily
.TP
.B \-c
Prints a report
of exceptional resource usage by command.
This may be used on current day's accounting data only.
.TP
.B \-l
Print a report of exceptional usage by login
.SM ID
for the specifed date.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /etc/fstab
list of file systems
.B /var/adm/fee
accumulator for fees
.TP
.B /var/adm/pacct
current file for per-process accounting
.TP
.B /var/adm/pacct\(**
used if pacct gets large and during execution of daily accounting procedure
.TP
.B /var/adm/wtmp
login/logoff summary
.TP
.B /usr/lib/acct/ptelus.awk
limits for exceptional usage by login id
.TP
.B /usr/lib/acct/ptecms.awk
limits for exceptional usage by command name
.TP
.B /var/adm/acct/nite
working directory
.TP
.B /usr/lib/acct
directory of accounting commands
.TP
.B /var/adm/acct/sum
summary directory, should be saved
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acctcom (1),
.BR acct (2V),
.BR acct (5),
.BR utmp (5V),
.BR acct (8),
.BR acctcms (8),
.BR acctcon (8),
.BR acctmerg (8),
.BR acctprc (8),
.BR cron (8),
.BR diskusg(8),
.BR fwtmp (8),
.BR runacct (8)
.LP
.TX ADMIN
