.\" @(#)acctcms.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2
.TH ACCTCMS 8 "17 January 1990"
.SH NAME
acctcms \- command summary from per-process accounting records
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/acct/acctcms
[
.B \-cjnst
]
.IR filename \|.\|.\|.
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/acctcms
[
.B \-a
[
.B po
]
[
.B cjnstpo
]
.IR filename \|.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "acctcms" "" "\fLacctcms\fP \(em command summary from pre-process accounting records" ""
.LP
.B acctcms
reads one or more
.IR filename s,
normally in the form described in
.BR acct (5).
It adds all records for processes that
executed identically-named commands,
sorts them,
and writes them to the standard output,
normally using an internal summary format.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Print output in
.SM ASCII
rather than in the internal summary format.
The output includes command name,
number of times executed,
total kcore-minutes,
total
.SM CPU
minutes,
total real minutes,
mean size (in K),
mean
.SM CPU
minutes per invocation,
\*(lqhog factor\*(rq,
characters transferred, and blocks read and written, as in
.BR acctcom (1).
Output is normally sorted by total kcore-minutes.
.TP
.B \-c
Sort by total
.SM CPU
time, rather than total kcore-minutes.
.TP
.B \-j
Combine all commands invoked only once under \*(lq\(**\(**\(**other\*(rq.
.TP
.B \-n
Sort by number of processes.
.TP
.B \-s
Any file names encountered hereafter are already in internal summary format.
.TP
.B \-t
Process all records as total accounting records.
The default internal summary format splits
each field into prime and non-prime
time parts.
This option combines the prime and non-prime time parts into a
single field that is the total of both.
.LP
The following options may be used only with
the
.B \-a
option.
.TP
.B \-p 
Output a prime-time-only command summary.
.TP
.B \-o
Output a non-prime (offshift) time only command summary.
.LP
When
.B \-p
and
.B \-o
are used together,
a combination prime and non-prime time report is produced.
All the output summaries will be total usage except
number of times executed,
.SM CPU
minutes, and real minutes which will
be split into prime and non-prime.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
A typical sequence for performing daily command accounting and
for maintaining a running total is:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
acctcms \|file \|.\|.\|. \|>today
cp \|total \|previoustotal
acctcms \|\-s \|today \|previoustotal \|>total
acctcms \|\-a \|\-s \|today
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acctcom (1),
.BR acct (2V),
.BR acct (5),
.BR utmp (5V),
.BR acct (8),
.BR acctcon (8),
.BR acctmerg (8),
.BR acctprc (8),
.BR acctsh (8),
.BR fwtmp (8),
.BR runacct (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Unpredictable output results if
.B \-t
is used on new style internal summary format files,
or if it is not used with old style internal summary format files.
