.\" @(#)add_user.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new for 4.1.1
.TH ADD_USER 8 "5 October 1990"
.SH NAME
add_user \- shell script to add a user account to a machine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/install/add_user
.I uname
.I uid
.I gid
.I fullname
.if n .ti +5n
.I homedir
.I shell
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX add_user "" "\fLadd_user\fP \(em add a user account"
.IX user "add_user command" user "\fLadd_user\fP \(em add a user account"
.IX account "add_user command" account "\fLadd_user\fP \(em add a user account"
.LP
The
.B add_user
shell script creates a new user account.
It is purposely limited in its abilities,
and should be considered as a working example
of how to add a user account to a machine.
System administrators may wish to use this script
as the basis for their own tools to create new accounts.
.LP
The
.BR adduser (8)
manual page provides a more detailed description of the
steps involved in adding a user to a machine, including
those steps automated by
.BR add_user .
Also refer to 
.BR adduser (8)
for information about user accounts involving the
Network Information Service (\s-1NIS\s0).
.LP
When run,
.B add_user
first checks that the following conditions are satisfied.
.IP
The command must be run by root.
.IP
A valid number of arguments must be suplied.
.IP
.I uid
and 
.I gid
are between 10 and 60000.
.IP
.I shell
exists and is executable.
.IP
.I homedir
does
.I not
already exist.
.IP
The parent directory where the home directory will be created exists.
.IP
The filesystem where the home directory
will be created is a local filesystem.
.IP
.I uname
and
.I uid
do not already exist in the
.B /etc/passwd
file.
.LP
When all of the preceding checks are satisfied,
.B add_user
performs the following steps to create a user account.
.IP
Creates an entry in the \fB/etc/passwd\fR file.
.IP
Creates the home directory.
.IP
Changes the ownership and group of the home directory
to that of the new user.
.IP
Copies the default user startup files
.RB ( ".login .cshrc .rootmenu .sunview" )
to the user's home directory, and changes
ownership and group of these files to that of the user's.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following example shows the input required to add the
user \*(lqLynn Long\*(rq to the current system.
Note that
.B /usr/etc/install
is not a usual path for user executables, only
administrators should have this in their path.
.LP
.ft B
.nf
example# /usr/etc/install/add_user lynnl 1099 10 "Lynn Long" /home/example/lynnl /bin/csh
.fi
.ft R
.LP
This adds the user \*(lqLynn Long\*(rq to the system,
creating an entry in the
.B /etc/passwd
file that looks like:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
lynnl::1099:10:Lynn Long:/home/example/lynnl:/bin/csh
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
It also creates the directory
.B /home/example/lynnl
and copies the default user startup files into it.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/Login 
the default
.B .login
file placed in the user's home directory
.TP
.B /usr/lib/Cshrc
the default
.B .cshrc
file placed in the user's home directory
.TP
.B /usr/lib/.sunview
the default
.B .sunview
file placed in the user's home directory
.TP
.B /usr/lib/.rootmenu
the default
.B .rootmenu
file placed in the user's home directory
.TP
.B /etc/passwd
the system password file
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR csh (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR sunview (1),
.BR adduser (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
The numerous error messages that
.B add_user
may issue are intended to be self-explanatory.
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
Do not attempt to run
.B add_user
on a system that has the
.I "C2 Security"
software installed on it.
.SH NOTES
.LP
After successfully running
.BR add_user ,
either the system administrator (running as root)
or the user should immediately create
a password for the account, using the
.BR passwd (1)
command, to deter unauthorized use of the new account.
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B add_user
does not check to see if the
.I gid
exists in the
.B /etc/group
file on the machine.
Thus the user's group may not
have a name associated with it.
