.\" @(#)add_client.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH ADD_CLIENT 8 "7 October 1990"
.SH NAME
add_client \- create a diskless network bootable NFS client on a server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/install/add_client 
.RB [ \-inpv ]
[
.B \-a 
.I kernel-arch
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.B \-e 
.I exec-path
]
[
.B \-f 
.I share-path
]
[
.B \-h
.I home-path
]
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.B \-k
.I kvm-path
]
[
.B \-m
.I mail-path
]
[
.B \-r 
.I root-path
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.B \-s 
.I swap-path
]
[
.B \-t
.I term-type
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.B \-y 
.I yptype
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.B \-z 
.I swapsize
]
.IR client \|.\|.\|.
.br
.B /usr/etc/install/add_client 
.RB \-i \||\| \-p
.RB [ \-nv ]
[
.B \-a 
.I kernel-arch
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.B \-e 
.I exec-path
]
[
.B \-f 
.I share-path
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.B \-h
.I home-path
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.B \-k
.I kvm-path
]
[
.B \-m
.I mail-path
]
[
.B \-r 
.I root-path
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.B \-s 
.I swap-path
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.B \-t
.I term-type
]
[
.B \-y 
.I yptype
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.B \-z 
.I swapsize
]
[
.IR client \|.\|.\|.
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "add_client command" "" "\fLadd_client\fP command"
.LP
.B add_client
adds an
.SM NFS
client to a server.
It can only be run by the super-user.
.LP
A default standard layout is used to set up the 
client's environment, but most
pathnames can be overridden with the appropriate option,
or menu field change.
.LP
Before you can add a client, you must first make sure that the Internet
and Ethernet addresses for
.I client
are listed in the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
hosts database (if the server is running the
.SM NIS
service),
or in the server's
.B /etc/hosts
and
.B /etc/ethers
databases, respectively.
If
.B add_client
cannot find the client entry in the hosts database
it aborts the operation.
If there is no client entry in the
.B /etc/ethers
database,
.B add_client 
issues a warning to update this file while adding the client.
.LP
The default root and swap partitions are
.BI /export/root/ client
and
.BI /export/swap/ client\fR,
respectively.
.LP
.B add_client
updates the
.B /etc/bootparams
file on the server but not the bootparams database in the
.SM NIS
service
(if used).
.LP
If the server is not running as an
.SM NIS 
master,
.BR add_client
issues a warning to indicate that
the database is out of date and the
.SM NIS
master should be updated.
.LP
.B add_client
updates the server's
.B /etc/exports
file to allow client's root access to each client's root file system.
It also exports each client's swap file accordingly.
Note: the system administrator should verify that the
.B /etc/exports
file contains correct information, and that file systems
are exported to the correct users and groups.
Refer to
.BR exportfs (8)
for details on exporting file systems.
.LP
If the
.B \-i
or 
.B \-p
option is not specified,
at least one
.I client
argument must be supplied on the command line.
.br
.ne 10
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-i
Interactive.
Bring up a full-screen menu interface to
.BR add_client .
.TP
.B \-n
Print the working parameters and exit without doing anything.
This is used to verify what parameters 
.B add_client
will use before actually doing anything.
.TP
.B \-p
Display a short version of all client information,
If 
.IR client s
are specified on the command line,
only display information for those clients.
When combined with the 
.B \-v
option, a long version of client information is displayed.
.TP
.BI \-v
Verbose.
Report information about the client as steps are performed.
.TP
.BI \-a " kernel-arch"
Specify the client kernel architecture (for instance, 
.BR sun3 ,
.BR sun4 ,
.BR sun4c .\|.\|.). 
.B add_client
prompts for the kernel architecture when unable to determine
the correct value.
.TP
.BI \-e " exec-path"
Set the pathname of the directory in which the
executables for the architecture specified by
.BR \-a .
The client mounts
.BI /export/exec/ arch . rel
as
.BR /usr . 
See
.SM WARNINGS\s0.
.TP
.BI \-f " share-path"
Set the pathname of the share directory, which is normally a link to
.BR /usr/share .
.TP
.BI \-h " home-path"
Set the pathname of the directory for the client's home.  
The default is
.BI /home/ server-name\fR.
.TP
.BI \-k " kvm-path"
Set the pathname of the directory containing the client's kernel
executables.
See
.SM WARNINGS\s0.
.TP
.BI \-m " mail-path"
Set the pathname of the client's mail directory.  
The default is
.BR /var/spool/mail .
.TP
.BI \-r " root-path"
Set the pathname of parent directory for client root directories; 
.IB root / client
is the pathname of the client's root directory.
The default is
.BI /export/root/ client-name\fR.
.TP
.BI \-s " swap-path"
Set the pathname of parent directory for client swap files;  
.IB swap / client
is the pathname of the client's swap file.
The default is
.BI /export/swap/ client-name\fR.
.TP
.BI \-t " term-type"
Set the terminal type of the client's console.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.BI \-y " yptype"
Indicate the type of 
.SM NIS
server or if client is to be an
.SM NIS
client; it can be
.BR client
or
.BR none .
The
.BR none
argument results in the
.SM NIS
service being disabled on the client.  The default is
.BR client .
.TP
.BI \-z " swapsize"
Reserve
.I swapsize
bytes for the client's swap file. 
.BR swapsize
can be flagged as kilobytes, blocks, or
megabytes, with the
.BR k ,
.BR b ,
or
.B m
suffixes, respectively.
The default is 16Mb, and bytes are used when no
units are specified.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /etc/bootparams
.TP
.B /etc/ethers
.TP
.B /etc/exports
.TP
.B /etc/hosts
.TP
.BI /export/exec/proto.root. release
architecture independent base for the
client root file system
.TP
.BI /tftpboot. client-ipaddr
link to
.BI /tftpboot/boot. arch
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR add_services (8),
.BR bootparamd(8),
.BR exportfs (8),
.BR ndbootd (8C),
.BR rm_client (8),
.BR suninstall (8)
.LP
.TX INSTALL
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B "add_client: must be super-user"
You must be root to use
.BR add_client .
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
The
.BI \-e " exec-path"
and
the
.BI \-k " kvm-path"
options should not be used since the correct paths
are determined when the adding the client's architecture service.
See
.BR add_services (8).
