.\" @(#)adduser.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.TH ADDUSER 8 "7 September 1989"
.SH NAME
adduser \- procedure for adding new users
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "adduser command"  ""  "\fLadduser\fP \(em add new user account"
.IX  "system administration"  adduser  ""  "\fLadduser\fP \(em add new user account"
.LP
To add an account for a new user, the system
administrator (or super-user):
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
Create an entry for the new user in the system password files.
.TP 
\(bu
Create a home directory for the user,
and change ownership so the new user owns that directory.
.TP 
\(bu
Optionally set up skeletal dot files for the new user
.RB ( .cshrc ,
.BR .login ,
.BR .profile .\|.\|.).
.TP 
\(bu
If the account is on a system running the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0),
take additional measures.
.RE
.SH USAGE
.SS "Making an Entry in the Password File"
.LP
To add an entry for the new login name on a local host, first edit the
.B /etc/passwd
file
\(em inserting a line for the new user.
This must be done with the
password file locked, for instance, by using
.BR vipw (8),
and the insertion must be made above the line containing the
string:
.IP
.ft B
+::0:0:::
.ft R
.LP
This line indicates that additional accounts can be found
in the 
.SM NIS
service.
.LP
To add an entry for the new login name into the 
.SM NIS
service,
add an identical line to the file
.B /etc/passwd
on the
.SM NIS
master server, and run
.BR make (1)
in the directory
.B /var/yp
(see
.BR ypmake (8)
for details) to propagate the change.
.LP
The new user is assigned a group and user
.SM ID
number
(\s-1GID\s0
and
.SM UID
respectively).
\s-1UID\s0s
should be unique for each user and
consistent across the
.SM NFS
domain, since they control access to files.
\s-1GID\s0s
need not be unique.
Typically, users working on similar projects will assigned to the same
group.  The system staff is group 10 for historical reasons,
and the super-user is in this group.
.LP
An entry for a new user 
.B francine
would look like this:
.IP
.B "francine::235:20:& Featherstonehaugh:/usr/francine:/bin/csh"
.LP
Fields in each password-file entry are delimited by colons, and have
the following meanings:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
Login name
(\fBfrancine\fP).
The login name is limited to eight characters in length.
.TP
\(bu
Encrypted password or the string
.BI ## name
if encrypted passwords are stored
in the password adjunct file.
Typically, if passwords are to be stored in
the main password file, this field is left empty, so
no password is needed when the user first logs in.
If security demands a password, it should be assigned by running
.BR passwd (1)
immediately after exiting the editor. The number of significant
characters in a password is eight. (See
.BR passwd (1).)
.TP 
\(bu
User
.SM ID\s0.
The 
.SM UID
is a number which identifies that user uniquely in the system.
Files owned by the user have this number stored in
their data blocks, and commands such as
.B ls (1V) 
(see 
.BR ls (1V)), 
use it to look up the owner's login name.
For this reason, you cannot 
randomly change this number. See
.BR passwd (5)
for more information.
.TP 
\(bu
Group
.SM ID\s0.
The 
.SM GID
number identifies the group to which
the user belongs by default (although the user may belong to
additional groups as well).  All files that the user creates have this
number stored in their data blocks, and commands such as
.BR ls (1V)
(see 
.BR ls (1V),
use it to look up the group name.  Group names and assignments
are listed in the file
.B /etc/group
(which is described in
.BR group (5))
or in the 
.SM NIS
group map.
.TP 
\(bu
This field is called the
.SM GCOS
field (from earlier implementation of the
operating system) and is traditionally used to hold the user's full name.  
Some installations have other information encoded in this field.
From this information we can tell that Francine's real name is
`Francine Featherstonehaugh'. 
The
.B &
in the entry is shorthand for the user's
login name.
.br
.ne 5
.TP 
\(bu
User's home directory.
This is the directory in which that user is
\*(lqpositioned\*(rq when they log in.
.TP 
\(bu
Initial shell which this user will see on login.
If this field is empty,
.BR sh (1)
is used as the initial shell.
.RE	
.LP
An entry for a new user
.B francine
would look like this:
.IP
.B francine:::::lo:ad,+dw
.LP
Fields in each password adjunct file entry
are delimited by colons, and have
the following meanings:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
Login name
(\fBfrancine\fP).
This name must match the login name in the password file.
.TP 
\(bu
Encrypted password.  Typically, this field is left empty when
adding the line using the editor.
.BR passwd (1)
should be run immediately after exiting the editor.
.TP 
\(bu
The next three fields are
the minimum label, the maximum label, and the default label.
These fields should be left empty,
since they are reserved for future use.
.TP 
\(bu
The next two fields are for
the always-audit flags and the never-audit flags.
Always-audit flags specify which events
are guaranteed to be audited for that user.
Never-audit flags specify which events
are guaranteed not to be audited for that user.
.\" Additional events may be audited based on flags in
.\" .BR /etc/security/audit/audit_control .
For a description of audit flags, see
.BR audit_data (5).
.RE
.SS "Making a Home Directory"
As shown in the password file entry above, the name of Francine's home
directory is to be
.BR /usr/francine .
This directory must be created using
.BR mkdir (1),
and Francine must be given ownership of it using
.BR chown (8),
in order for her profile files to be read and executed, and to
have control over access to it by other users:
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.sp .5
example# mkdir /usr/francine
example# /usr/etc/chown francine /usr/francine
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
If running under
.SM NFS\s0,
the
.BR mkdir (1)
and
.BR chown (8)
commands must be performed on the
.SM NFS
server.
.SS "Setting Up Skeletal Profile Files"
New users often need assistance in setting up their profile
files to initialize the terminal properly, configure their
search path, and perform other desired functions at startup.
Providing them with skeletal profile files saves time
and interruptions for both the new user and the system administrator.
.LP
Such files as
.B .profile
(if they use
.B /usr/bin/sh
as the shell), or
.B .cshrc
and
.B .login
(if they use
.B /usr/bin/csh
as the shell),
can include commands that are performed automatically at each
login, or whenever a shell is invoked, such as
.BR tset (1).
The ownership of these files must be changed to belong to the
new user, either by running
.BR su (1V)
before making copies, or by using
.BR chown (8).
.br
.ne 12
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
.B /etc/passwd
password file
.TP
.B /etc/security/passwd.adjunct
.TP
.B /etc/group
group file
.\" .TP
.\" .B /etc/security/passwd.adjunct
.\" the password adjunct file
.\" .TP
.\" .B /etc/security/audit/audit_control
.TP
.B /etc/yp/src/passwd
.TP
.B \~/.cshrc
.TP
.B \~/.login
.TP
.B \~/.profile
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR csh (1),
.BR ls (1V),
.BR make (1),
.BR mkdir (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR su (1V),
.BR tset (1),
.BR audit (2),
.BR audit_control (5),
.BR audit_data (5),
.BR passwd.adjunct (5),
.BR group (5),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR passwd.adjunct (5)
.BR audit (8),
.BR auditd (8),
.BR chown (8),
.BR vipw (8),
.BR ypmake (8),
.LP
.TX ADMIN
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
