.\" @(#)adv.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH ADV 8 "30 June 1988"
.SH NAME
adv \- advertise a directory for remote access with RFS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B adv
.br
.B adv
[
.B \-r
] [
.B \-d
.I description
]
.I resource
.I pathname
[
.I clients
\&.\|.\|.\|]
.br
.B adv
.B \-m
.I resource
.B \-d
.IR description \||
[
.I clients.\|.\|.
]
.br
.B adv
.B \-m
.I resource
[
.B \-d
.I description
] |
.I clients
\&.\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I \s-1RFS\s0
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "adv advertise" "" "\fLadv\fR \(em advertise directory for remote \s-1RFS\s0 access" ""
.IX RFS "advertise directory for access" "\s-1RFS\s0" "advertise directory for access" 
.IX directory "advertise for RFS access" "directory" "advertise for \s-1RFS\s0 access"
.IX server "advertise directory for RFS access" "server" "advertise directory for RFS access" 
.LP
.B adv
makes a resource from one system available for use
on other systems.
The machine that advertises the resource is called the
server, while systems that mount and use the
resource are
.BR clients .
See
.BR mount (8).
.I resource
represents a directory, which could contain
files, subdirectories, named pipes and devices.
.LP
Remote File Sharing
(\s-1RFS\s0)
must be running before
.B adv
can be used to advertise or modify a resource entry.
.LP
When used with no options,
.B adv
displays all local resources that have been advertised;
this includes the resource name, the pathname,
the description, the read-write
status, and the list of authorized clients.
The resource field has a fixed length of 14 characters;
all others are of variable length.
Fields are separated by two 
.SM SPACE
characters and double quotes
(\fB"\fR)
surround the description.
.LP
This command may be used without options by any user;
otherwise it is restricted to the super-user.
.LP
There are three ways
.B adv
is used:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
To print a list of all
locally-advertised resources,
as shown by the first synopsis.
.TP
\(bu
To advertise the directory
.I pathname
under the name
.I resource
so it is available to
.SM RFS
.IR clients ,
as shown by the second synopsis.
.TP
\(bu
To modify
.I client
and
.I description
fields for currently advertised resources,
as shown by the third and fourth synopses.
.RE
.LP
If any of the following are true,
an error message will be sent to standard error.
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
The network is not up and running.
.TP
\(bu
.I pathname
is not a directory.
.TP
\(bu
.I pathname
is not on a file system mounted locally.
.TP
\(bu
There is at least one entry in the
.I clients
field but none are syntactically valid.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-r
Restrict access to the resource to a read-only basis.
The default is read-write access.
.TP
.BI \-d " description"
Provide brief textual information about the advertised resource.
.I description
is a single argument surrounded by double quotes
(\fB"\fP\fIargument\fP\fB"\fP)
and has a maximum length of 32 characters.
.TP
.BI \-m " resource"
Modify information for a resource that has already been
advertised.
The resource is identified by a
.I resource
name.
Only the
.I clients
and
.I description
fields can be modified. 
To change the
.IR pathname ,
.I resource
name, or read/write permissions, you must
unadvertise and re-advertise the resource.
.TP
.I resource
This is the symbolic name used by the server
and all authorized clients to identify the resource.
It is limited to a maximum of 14 characters and must be
different from every other resource name in the domain.
All characters must be printable
.SM ASCII
characters, but must not include
.RB ` . '
(periods),
.RB ` / '
(slashes),
or white space.
.br
.ne 4
.TP
.I pathname
This is the local pathname of the advertised resource.
It is limited to a maximum of 64 characters.
This pathname cannot be the mount point of a remote resource and it
can only be advertised under one resource name.
.TP
.I clients
These are the names of all clients that are authorized to remotely
mount the resource.
The default is that all machines that can connect to the server are
authorized to access the resource.
Valid input is of the form
.IR nodename ,
.IR domain.nodename ,
.IR domain\f3. ,
or an alias that represents a list of client names.
A domain name must be followed by a
.RB ` . '
to distinguish it from a host name.
The aliases are defined in
.B /etc/host.alias
and must conform to the alias capability in
.BR mail (1).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following example displays the local resources that have
been advertised:
.RS
.ft B
.nf
example% adv
\s-1LOCAL_SUN3\s0      /export/local/sun3  ""  read-only unrestricted
\s-1LOCAL_SUN4\s0      /export/local/sun4  ""  read-only unrestricted
\s-1LOCAL_SHARE\s0     /export/local/share  ""  read-only unrestricted
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.LP
If there is at least one syntactically valid entry in the
.I clients
field,
a warning will be issued for each invalid entry and the command will return
a successful exit status.
A non-zero exit status will be returned if the command fails.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/host.alias
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mount (8),
.BR rfstart (8),
.BR unadv (8)
