.\" @(#)arp.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH ARP 8C "17 November 1987"
.SH NAME
arp \- address resolution display and control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B arp
.I hostname
.LP
.B arp \-a
[
.I vmunix
[
.I kmem
] ]
.LP
.B arp \-d
.I hostname
.LP
.B arp \-s
.I hostname ether_address
[
.B temp
] [
.B pub
] [
.B trail
]
.LP
.B arp \-f
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "arp command"  ""  "\fLarp\fP \(em address resolution display and control"
.IX  "address resolution display and control"  ""  "address resolution display and control \(em \fLarp\fP"
The
.B arp
program displays and modifies the
Internet-to-Ethernet address translation
tables used by the address resolution protocol
.RB ( arp (4P)).
.LP
With no flags, the program displays the current
.SM ARP
entry for
.IR hostname .
The host may be specified by name or by number,
using Internet dot notation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Display all of the current
.SM ARP
entries by reading the table
from the file
.I kmem
(default
.BR /dev/kmem )
based on the kernel file
.I vmunix
(default
.BR /vmunix ).
.TP
.B \-d
Delete an entry for the host called
.IR hostname .
This option may only be used by the super-user.
.TP
.B \-s
Create an
.SM ARP
entry for the host called
.I hostname
with the Ethernet address
.IR ether_address .
The Ethernet address is given as six hex bytes separated by colons.
The entry will be permanent unless the word
.B temp
is given in the command.
If the word
.B pub
is given, the entry will be published, for instance,
this system will respond to
.SM ARP
requests for
.I hostname
even though the hostname is not its own.
The word
.B trail
indicates that trailer encapsulations may be sent to this host.
.TP
.B \-f
Read the file named
.I filename
and set multiple entries in the
.SM ARP
tables.  Entries
in the file should be of the form
.RS
.IP
.I hostname ether_address
[
.B temp
] [
.B pub
] [
.B trail
]
.RE
.IP
with argument meanings as given above.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR arp (4P),
.BR ifconfig (8C)
