.\" @(#)auditd.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD
.TH AUDITD 8 "7 September 1988"
.SH NAME
auditd \- audit daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/auditd
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "auditd daemon" "" "\fLauditd\fP daemon"
The audit daemon controls the generation and location of audit trail files.
If the function
.BR issecure (3)
returns false, the only action that
.B auditd
takes is to disable the auditing system;
otherwise, auditing is set up and started.
If auditing is desired,
.B auditd
reads the
.BR audit_control (5)
file to get a list of directories into which audit files can be written
and the percentage limit for how much space to reserve on each filesystem
before changing to the next directory.
.LP
If
.B auditd
receives the signal
.SM
.BR SIGUSR1 ,
the current audit file is closed and another is opened.
If
.SB SIGHUP
is received, the current audit trail is closed, the
.B audit_control
file reread, and a new trail is opened.
If
.SB SIGTERM
is received, the audit trail is closed and auditing is
terminated.
The program
.BR audit (8)
sends these signals and is recommended for this purpose.
.LP
Each time the audit daemon opens a new audit trail file, it updates
the file
.BR audit_data (5)
to include the correct name.
.SS Auditing Conditions
.LP
The audit daemon invokes the program
.BR audit_warn  (8) 
under the following conditions with the indicated options:
.LP
.BI "audit_warn soft " pathname
.IP
The file system upon which
.I pathname
resides has exceeded the minimum free space limit defined in
.BR audit_control (5).
A new audit trail has been opened on another file system.
.TP
.B "audit_warn allsoft"
All available file systems have been filled beyond the 
minimum free space limit.
A new audit trail has been opened anyway.
.TP
.BI "audit_warn hard " pathname
The file system upon which
.I pathname
resides has filled or for some reason become unavailable.
A new audit trail has been opened on another file system.
.TP
.BI "audit_warn allhard " count
All available file systems have been filled or
for some reason become unavailable.
The audit daemon will repeat this call to
.B audit_warn
every twenty seconds until space becomes available.
.I count
is the number of times that
.B audit_warn
has been called since the problem arose.
.TP
.B "audit_warn ebusy"
There is already an audit daemon running.
.TP
.B "audit_warn tmpfile"
The file
.B /etc/security/audit/audit_tmp
exists, indicating a fatal error.
.TP
.B "audit_warn nostart"
The internal system audit condition is
.SM
.BR AUC_FCHDONE .
Auditing cannot be started without rebooting the system.
.TP
.B "audit_warn auditoff"
The internal system audit condition has been changed to not be
.SB AUC_AUDITING
by someone other than the audit daemon.  This causes the audit daemon to
exit.
.TP
.B "audit_warn postsigterm"
An error occurred during the orderly shutdown of the auditing system.
.TP
.B "audit_warn getacdir"
There is a problem getting the directory list from
.BR /etc/security/audit/audit_control .
.IP
The audit daemon will hang in a sleep loop until this file
is fixed.
.SH FILES
.nf
.B /etc/security/audit/audit_control
.B /etc/security/audit/audit_data
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR auditsvc (2),
.BR audit_control (5),
.BR audit.log (5),
.BR audit (8),
.BR audit_warn (8)
