.\" @(#)audit.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH AUDIT 8 "26 January 1988"
.SH NAME
audit \- audit trail maintenance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B audit
[
.BR \-n \||\| \-s \||\| \-t
]
.br
.B audit
.B \-d
.I username
.br
.B audit
.B \-u
.I username
.I audit_event_state
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I Security
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  audit  ""  "\fLaudit\fP \(em maintain audit trail"
.IX  change  "audit characteristics"
.LP
The
.B audit
command is the general administrator's interface to kernel auditing.
The process audit state for a user can be temporarily or permanently altered.
The audit daemon may be notified to read the contents of the
.B audit_control
file and re-initialize the current audit directory to the
first directory listed in the
.B audit_control
file, or to open a new audit file
in the current audit directory specified in the
.B audit_control
file as last read by the audit daemon.
Auditing may also be terminated/disabled.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-n
Signal audit daemon to close the current audit file and open a new
audit file in the current audit directory.
.TP
.B \-s
Signal audit daemon to read audit control file.  The audit daemon stores
the information internally.
.TP
.B \-t
Signal audit daemon to disable auditing and die.
.TP
.BI \-d " username"
Change the process audit state of all processes owned by
.IR username .
This new process audit state is constructed from the
system and user audit values as specified in the
.B audit_control
and
.BR passwd.adjunct
files respectively.
.TP
.BI \-u " username audit_event_state"
Set the process audit state from
.I audit_event_state
for all current processes owned by
.IR username .
See
.BR audit_control (5)
for the format of the system audit value.
The process audit state is one argument.
Enclose the audit event state in quotes,
or do not use 
.SM SPACE
characters in the process audit state specification.
A new login session reconstructs the process audit state 
from the audit flags in the
.B audit_control 
and
.BR passwd.adjunct
files.
.\" .SH FILES
.\" .PD 0
.\" .TP 20
.\" .B /etc/security/passwd.adjunct
.\" .TP
.\" .B /etc/security/audit/audit_control
.\" .PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audit (2),
.BR setuseraudit (2),
.BR getauditflags (3),
.BR getfauditflags (3),
.BR audit_control (5),
.BR passwd.adjunct (5)
