.\" @(#)automount.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH AUTOMOUNT 8 "20 January 1990"
.SH NAME
automount \- automatically mount NFS file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B automount
[
.B \-mnTv
] [
.BI \-D " name" = " value"
] [
.BI \-f " master-file"
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.BI \-M " mount-directory"
] [
.BI \-tl " duration"
]
.if t .ti +.5i
.if n .ti +5n
[
.BI \-tm " interval"
]
[
.BI \-tw " interval"
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.I directory\ \ 
.I map
.RI [ " \-mount-options " ]
] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "automount command" "" "\fLautomount\fP \(em automatically mount NFS file systems"
.LP
.B automount
is a daemon that automatically and transparently mounts an
.SM NFS
file system as needed.  It monitors attempts to access
directories that are associated with an
.B automount
map, along with any directories or files that reside under them.
When a file is to be accessed, the daemon
mounts the appropriate
.SM NFS
file system.
You can assign a map to a directory using an entry in a direct
.B automount
map, or by specifying an indirect map on the command line.
.LP
The
.B automount
daemon appears to be an
.SM NFS
server to the kernel.
.B automount
uses the map to locate an
appropriate
.SM NFS
file server, exported file system, and mount options.  It then
mounts the file system in a temporary location, and creates
a symbolic link
to the temporary location.  If the file system is not accessed within
an appropriate interval (five minutes by default), the daemon unmounts
the file system and removes the symbolic link.  If the indicated
directory has not already been created, the daemon creates it, and then
removes it upon exiting.
.LP
Since the name-to-location binding is dynamic, updates to an
.B automount
map are transparent to the user.
This obviates the need to ``pre-mount'' shared file
systems for applications that have ``hard coded'' references to files.
.LP
If the
.I directory
argument is a pathname, the
.I map
argument must be an
.I indirect
map.
In an indirect map the key for each entry is a simple name
that represents a symbolic link within
.I directory
to an
.SM NFS
mount point.
.LP
If the
.I directory
argument is
.RB ` /\- ',
the map that follows must be a
.I direct
map.
A direct map is not associated with a single directory.
Instead, the key for each entry is a full pathname that will
itself appear to be a symbolic link to an 
.SM NFS 
mount point.
.LP
A map can be a file or a 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
map; if a file, the
.I map
argument must be a full pathname.
.LP
The
.BI \- mount-options
argument, when supplied, is a comma-separated list of
.BR mount (8)
options, preceded by a
.RB ` \- '.
If these options are supplied,
they become the default mount options
for all entries in the map. 
Mount options provided within a map
entry override these defaults.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-m
Suppress initialization of
.IR directory - map
pairs listed in the
.B auto.master
.SM NIS
database.
.TP
.B \-n
Disable dynamic mounts.  With this option, references through the
.B automount
daemon only succeed when the target filesystem has been previously
mounted.  This can be used to prevent
.SM NFS
servers from cross-mounting each other.
.TP
.B \-T
Trace.  Expand each
.SM NFS
call and display it on the standard output.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose.
Log status and/or warning messages to the console.
.TP
.BI  \-D " envar" = value
Assign
.I value
to the indicated
.B automount
(environment) variable.
.TP
.BI \-f " master-file"
Read a local file for initialization, ahead of the
.B auto.master
.SM NIS
map.
.TP
.BI \-M " mount-directory"
Mount temporary file systems in the named directory, instead of
.BR /tmp_mnt .
.TP
.BI \-tl " duration"
Specify a
.IR duration ,
in seconds, that a file system is to remain mounted
when not in use.  The default is 5 minutes.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.BI \-tm " interval"
Specify an
.IR interval ,
in seconds, between attempts
to mount a filesystem. The default is 30 seconds.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.BI \-tw " interval"
Specify an
.IR interval ,
in seconds, between attempts to unmount
filesystems that have exceeded their cached times.
The default is 1 minute.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables can be used within an
.B automount
map.  For instance, if
.SB $HOME
appeared within a map,
.B automount
would expand it to its current value for the
.SB HOME
variable.
Environment variables are expanded only for the automounter's
environment \(em not for the environment of a user using
the automounter's services.
.LP
The special reference to
.SB $ARCH
expands to the output of
.B arch (1).
This can be useful in creating a map entry for mounting executables
using a server's export pathname that varies according to the
architecture of the client reading the map.
.LP
If a reference needs to be protected from affixed characters, you can
surround the variable name with curly braces.
.SH USAGE
.SS Map Entry Format
A simple map entry (mapping) takes the form:
.IP
.I key
\ \ [
.BI \- mount-options
]
.I location\ .\|.\|.
.LP
where
.I key
is the full pathname of the directory to mount when used in a direct
map, or simple name in an indirect map.
.I mount-options
is a comma-separated list of
.B mount
options, and
.I location
specifies a remote filesystem from which the directory may be mounted.
In the simple case,
.I location
takes the form:
.IP
.IB hostname : pathname
.LP
.SS "\fIReplicated Filesystems\fP"
Multiple
.I location
fields can be specified for replicated read-only filesystems,
in which case
.B automount
sends multiple
.B mount
requests;
.B automount
mounts the file system from the first host that replies to the
.B mount
request.  This request is first made to the local net or subnet.  If
there is no response, any connected server may respond.
Since
.B automount
does not monitor the status of the server while the filesystem
is mounted it will not use another location in the list if the
currently mounted server crashes.  This support for replicated
filesystems is available only at mount time.
.LP
If each
.I location
in the list shares the same 
.I pathname
then a single 
.I location
may be used with a comma-separated list of hostnames.
.IP
.IB hostname , hostname\|.\|.\|. \|:\| pathname
.LP
.SS "\fISharing Mounts\fP"
If
.I location
is specified in the form:
.IP
.IB hostname : pathname : subdir
.LP
.I hostname
is the name of the server from which to mount the file system,
.I pathname
is the pathname of the directory to mount, and
.IR subdir ,
when supplied, is the name of a subdirectory to which the
symbolic link is made.  This can be used to prevent duplicate
mounts when multiple directories in the same remote file system may
be accessed.  With a map for
.BR /home
such as:
.LP
.RS
.B "able	homeboy:/home/homeboy:able"
.br
.B "baker	homeboy:/home/homeboy:baker"
.RE
.LP
and a user attempting to access a file in
.BR /home/able ,
.B automount
mounts
.BR homeboy:/home/homeboy ,
but creates a symbolic link called
.B /home/able
to the
.B able
subdirectory in the temporarily-mounted filesystem.
If a user immediately tries to access a file in
.BR /home/baker ,
.B automount
needs only to create a symbolic link that points to the
.B baker
subdirectory;
.B /home/homeboy
is already mounted.
.br
.ne 5
.LP
With the following map:
.LP
.RS
.B "able	homeboy:/home/homeboy/able"
.br
.B "baker	homeboy:/home/homeboy/baker"
.RE
.LP
.B automount
would have to mount the filesystem twice.
.LP
.SS "\fIComments and Quoting\fP"
A mapping can be continued across input lines by escaping the
.SM NEWLINE
with a backslash.
Comments begin with a
.B  #
and end at the subsequent
.SM NEWLINE\s0.
.LP
Characters that have special significance to the
.B automount
map parser may be protected either with double quotes (") or by
escaping with a backslash (\\).  Pathnames with embedded whitespace,
colons (:) or dollar ($) should be protected.
.br
.ne 7
.SS "\fIDirectory Pattern Matching"
The
.RB ` & '
character is expanded to the value of the
.I key
field for the entry in which it occurs.   In this case:
.LP
.IP
.B
able	homeboy:/home/homeboy:&
.LP
the
.B &
expands to
.BR able .
.LP
The
.RB ` * '
character, when supplied as the
.I key
field, is recognized as the catch-all entry.
Such an entry will be used if any previous entry has not
successfully matched the key being searched for.
For instance, if the following entry appeared in the indirect map for
.BR /home :
.IP
.B
*	&:/home/&
.LP
this would allow automatic mounts in
.B /home
of any remote file system whose location could be specified as:
.IP
.IB hostname :/home/ hostname
.br
.ne 6
.SS "\fIMultiple Mounts\fP"
.LP
A multiple mount entry takes the form:
.IP
.I key
[
.B /\c
.RI [ mountpoint
[
.BI \- mount-options
]
.I 
location\ .\|.\|.
]
\&.\|.\|.
.LP
The initial
.B /
within the
`\fB/\fR[\fImountpoint\|\fR]'
is required; the optional
.I mountpoint
is taken as a pathname relative to the
destination of the symbolic link for
.IR key .
If
.I mountpoint
is omitted in the first occurrence, a
.I mountpoint
of
.B /
is implied.
.LP
Given the direct map entry:
.LP
.nf
.ft B
/arch/src\ \ \ \e
	/               	\-ro,intr		arch:/arch/src      	alt:/arch/src\ \ \ \e
	/1.0           	\-ro,intr		alt:/arch/src/1.0   	arch:/arch/src/1.0\ \ \ \e
	/1.0/man	\-ro,intr		arch:/arch/src/1.0/man	alt:/arch/src/1.0/man
.fi
.ft
.LP
.B automount
would automatically mount
.BR /arch/src ,
.BR /arch/src/1.0
and
.BR /arch/src/1.0/man ,
as needed, from either
.B arch
or
.BR alt ,
whichever host responded first.
If the mounts are hierarchically related mounts closer to the
root must appear before submounts.
All the mounts of a multiple mount
entry will occur together and will be unmounted together.  This
is important if the filesystems reference each other with relative
symbolic links.
Multiple mount entries can be used both in direct maps
and in indirect maps.
.LP
.SS "Included Maps"
The contents of another map can be included within a map with an entry
of the form:
.IP
.BI + mapname
.LP
.I mapname
can either be a filename, or the name of an
.SM NIS
map, or one of the special maps described below.
If the key being searched for is not located in an included map, the
search continues with the next entry.
.br
.ne 6
.SS Special Maps
.LP
There are two special maps currently available:
.BR \-hosts ,
and
.BR \-null .
The
.B \-hosts
map uses the 
.SM NIS
.B hosts.byname
map to locate a remote host when the hostname is specified.
This map specifies mounts of all exported file systems from any host.
For instance, if the following
.B automount
command is already in effect:
.IP
.B
automount\ \ /net\ \ \-hosts
.LP
then a reference to
.B /net/hermes/usr
would initiate an automatic mount of all file systems from
.B hermes
that
.B automount
can mount; references to a directory under
.B /net/hermes
will refer to the corresponding directory relative to
.B hermes
root.
.LP
The
.B \-null
map, when indicated on the command line, cancels any subsequent map
for the directory indicated.  It can be used to cancel a map
given in
.B auto.master
or for a mount point specified as an entry in a direct map.
.SS Configuration and the auto.master Map
.B automount
normally consults the
.B auto.master
.SM NIS
configuration map for a list of initial
.B automount
maps, and sets up automatic mounts for them in addition to
those given on the command line.  If there are duplications, the
command-line arguments take precedence over a local
.B \-f
master map and they both take precedence over an
.SM NIS
.B auto.master
map.
This configuration database contains arguments to the
.B automount
command, rather than mappings; unless
.B \-f
is in effect,
.B automount
does 
.I not
look for an
.B auto.master
file on the local host.
.LP
Maps given on the command line, or those given in a local
.B auto.master
file specified with
.B \-f
override those in the
.SM NIS
.BR auto.master
map.  For instance, given the command:
.IP
.B
automount\ \-f\  /etc/auto.master\ /home\ \-null\ \ \ /\-\ \ \/etc/auto.direct
.LP
and a file named
.B /etc/auto.master
that contains:
.IP
.B
/home\ \ \ auto.home
.LP
.B automount
would ignore /home entry in /etc/auto.master.
.br
.ne 5
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /tmp_mnt
directory under which filesystems are dynamically mounted
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR df (1V),
.BR ls (1V),
.BR stat (2V),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR mount (8)
.LP
.TX ADMIN
.SH NOTES
.LP
The
.B \-hosts
map must mount all the exported filesystems from a server.
If frequent access to just a single filesystem is required it
is more efficient to access the filesystem with a map entry
that is tailored to mount just the filesystem of interest.
.LP
When it receives signal number 1,
.BR \s-1SIGHUP\s0 ,
.B automount
rereads the
.B /etc/mtab
file to update its internal record of currently-mounted file
systems.  If a file system mounted with
.B automount
is unmounted by a
.B umount
command,
.B automount
should be forced to reread the file.
.LP
An
.BR ls (1V)
listing of the entries in the directory for an indirect map
shows only the symbolic links for currently mounted filesystems.
This restriction is intended to avoid unnecessary mounts as a
side effect of programs that read the directory and
.BR stat (2V)
each of the names.
.LP
Mount points for a single automounter must not be hierarchically
related.
.B automount
will not allow an automount mount point to be created within
an automounted filesystem.
.LP
.B automount
must not be terminated with the 
.SB SIGKILL 
signal 
.RB ( "kill \-9" ).
Without an opportunity to unmount itself, the 
.B automount
mount points will appear to the kernel to belong to a non-responding 
.SM NFS 
server.
The recommended way to terminate
.B automount
services is to send a 
.SB SIGTERM 
.RB ( "kill \-15" ) 
signal to the daemon.  
This allows the automounter to catch the signal and unmount not
only its daemon but also any mounts in 
.BR /tmp_mnt .
Mounts in 
.B /tmp_mnt 
that are busy will not be unmounted.
.LP
Since each direct map entry results in a separate mount for the
mount daemon such maps should be kept short.  Entries added to
a direct map will have no effect until the automounter is
restarted.
.LP
Entries in both direct and indirect maps can be modified at any
time.  The new information will be used when
.B automount
next uses the map entry to do a mount.
.B automount
does not cache map entries.
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The
.B bg
mount option is not recognized by the automounter.
.LP
Since
.B automount
is single-threaded, any request that is delayed by a slow or
non-responding
.SM NFS
server will delay all subsequent automatic mount requests until it completes. 
.LP
Programs that read
.B /etc/mtab
and then touch files that reside under automatic mount points will
introduce further entries to the file.
.LP
Automatically-mounted file systems are mounted with type
.BR ignore ;
they do not appear in the output of either
.BR mount (8),
or
.BR df (1V).
