.\" @(#)boot.8s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH BOOT 8S "29 April 1992"
.SH NAME
boot \- start the system kernel or a standalone program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "SUN-3, SUN-4 SYSTEMS"
.B >b
[
.I device
[
.BI ( c , \|u\c
.BI ,\| p )
] ] [
.I filename
] [
.B \-av
]
.I boot-flags
.br
.B >b
.I tapedev
.BR ( [\fIc\fB,\|\fIu\fB,\|\fIp\fR\^] )install
[
.I filenum 
]
.if n .ti +5n
.I diskdev\c
.BR ( [\fIc\fP\^]\fB,\fP[\fIu\fP\^]\fB,\fP[\fIp\fP\^] )\c
[\c
.BR vmunix [\^\fIboot-flags\fR\^]]
.br
.B >b?
.br
.B >b!
.SS "SPARCstation 1 SYSTEMS"
.LP
.B >b
[
.I device
[
.BI ( c , \|u\c
.BI ,\| p )
] ] [
.I filename
]
.I boot-flags
.SS "SPARCstation 2, SPARCstation 10 SYSTEMS, SPARCsystem 600MP SERIES"
.LP
.B >b
[
.I device-specifier
] [
.I filename
]
.I boot-flags
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "boot command"  ""  "\fLboot\fP \(em system startup procedures"
.IX  "bootstrap procedures"  ""  "bootstrap procedures \(em \fLboot\fP"
.IX  "autoboot procedures"  ""  "autoboot procedures \(em \fLboot\fP"
.IX  "startup procedures"  ""  "startup procedures \(em \fLboot\fP"
.LP
The boot program is started by the
.SM PROM
monitor and loads the
kernel, or another executable program, into memory.
.LP
The following applies to all Sun systems
.I except
Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems and
\s-1SPARC\s0system 600MP series.
See
.BR openboot (8S)
for those systems.
.LP
The form
.BI b \|.\|.\|. install
loads the miniroot from a SunOS distribution tape or
.SM CDROM
into the designated partition of 
.I diskdev
(commonly 
.BR 1 ,
the swap partition), and then boots the mini-root 
kernel in preparation for a
software installation.
.LP
The form
.B b?
displays all boot devices and their device arguments.
.LP
The form
.B b!
boots, but does not perform a
.SM RESET\s0.
.SH USAGE
.SS "Booting Standalone"
.LP
When booting standalone, the boot program
.RB ( /boot )
is brought in by the
.SM PROM
from the file system. 
This program contains drivers for all devices.
.SS "Booting a Sun-3 System Over the Network"
.LP
When booting over the network, the Sun-3 system
.SM PROM
obtains a version of the boot program from
a server using the Trivial File
Transfer Protocol (\s-1TFTP\s0).
The client broadcasts a
.SM RARP
request containing its Ethernet address.
A server responds with the client's
Internet address.
The client then sends a
.SM TFTP
request for its boot program to that
server (or if that fails, it broadcasts the request).
The filename requested
(unqualified \(em not a pathname)
is the hexadecimal, uppercase representation
of the client's Internet address; for example:
.IP
.ta +20n
.ft B
Using \s-1IP\s0 Address		192.9.1.17 = C0090111
.ft R
.LP
When the Sun server receives the request, it looks in the directory
.B /tftpboot
for
.IR filename .
That file is typically a symbolic link to the client's boot program,
normally
.BR boot.sun3 ,
in the same directory.
The server invokes the
.SM TFTP
server,
.BR tftpd (8C),
to transfer the file to the client.
.LP
When the file is successfully read in by the client,
the boot program jumps to the load-point and loads
.B vmunix
(or a standalone program). 
In order to do this,
the boot program makes a broadcast
.SM RARP
request to find the client's
.SM IP
address,
and then makes a second broadcast request to a
.BR bootparamd (8)
bootparams daemon, for information necessary to boot the client.
The bootparams daemon obtains this information either from a local
.B /etc/bootparams
database file, or from an NIS
map.  The boot program sends two requests
to the bootparams daemon \(em the first,
.BR whoami ,
to obtain its hostname, and the second,
.BR getfile ,
to obtain the name of the client's server and the pathname of
the client's root partition.
.LP
The boot program then performs a
.BR mount (8)
operation to mount the client's root partition,
after which it can read in and execute
any program within that partition by pathname
(including a symbolic link to another file within that same
partition).
Typically, it reads in the file
.BR /vmunix .
If the program is not read in successfully,
.B boot
responds with a short diagnostic message.
.SS "Booting Other Sun Systems Over the Network"
.LP
Other Sun systems boot over the network in a similar
fashion.
However, the filename requested from a server must
have a suffix that reflects the 
.I kernel
architecture of the
machine being booted.
For these systems, the requested filename
has the form:
.IP
.IB ip-address . arch
.LP
where
.I ip-address
is the machine's Internet Protocol
(\s-1IP\s0) address in hex, and
.I arch
is a suffix representing its kernel architecture.
Only Sun-3 systems may omit the
.I arch
suffix.
These filenames are restricted to 14 characters
for compatibility with 
.SM UNIX
System V and other operating systems.
Therefore, the architecture suffix is limited to 5 characters;
it must be in upper case.  At present, the following suffixes are
recognized:
.SB SUN3
for Sun-3 systems,
.SB SUN3X
for Sun-3x systems,
.SB SUN4
for Sun-4 systems,
.SB S386 
for Sun386i systems,
and
.SB PCNFS
for
.BR \s-1PC-NFS\s0.
.BR arch (1)
may be used to determine the kernel architecture of a machine.
.SS "System Startup"
.LP
Once the system is loaded and running, the
kernel performs some internal housekeeping, configures its
device drivers, and allocates its internal tables and buffers.
The kernel then starts process number 1 to run
.BR init (8),
which performs file system housekeeping, starts system daemons,
initializes the system console, and begins multiuser operation.
Some of these activities are omitted when
.B init
is invoked with certain
.IR boot-flags .
These are typically entered as arguments to the boot command
and passed along by the kernel to
.BR init .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.I device
One of:
.RS
.TP
.B le
.PD 0
Lance Ethernet
.TP
.B ie
Intel Ethernet (Sun-3, Sun-4 systems only)
.TP
.B sd
.SM SCSI
disk, \s-1CDROM\s0
.TP
.B st
.SM SCSI
1/4" or 1/2" tape
.TP
.B fd
Diskette (Sun386i, Sun-3/80 systems and Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems only)
.TP
.B id
\s-1IPI\s0 disk (Sun-4 systems and \s-1SPARC\s0system 600\s-1MP\s0 series only)
.TP
.B mt
Tape Master 9-track 1/2" tape (Sun-3, Sun-4 systems only)
.TP
.B xd
Xylogics 7053 disk (Sun-3, Sun-4 systems only)
.TP
.B xt
Xylogics 1/2" tape (Sun-3, Sun-4 systems only)
.TP
.B xy
Xylogics 440/450 disk (Sun-3, Sun-4 systems only)
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I diskdev
Disk or
.SM CDROM\s0;
one of 
.BR sd , 
.BR id , 
.B xy
from the above device set.
.TP
.I tapedev
Tape; one of 
.BR st , 
.BR xt , 
.B mt
from the above device set.
.TP
.I c
Controller number,
.B 0
if there is only one controller for the indicated
type of device.
.TP
.I u
Unit number,
.B 0
if there is only one driver.
.TP
.I p
Partition number when booting off a disk, or
tape file number when booting from a tape.
Defaults to 
.BR 0 .
.TP
.I filename
Name of a standalone program in the selected partition, such as
.BR stand/diag
or
.BR vmunix .
Note:
.I filename
is relative to the root of the selected
device and partition.
It never begins with a
.RB ` / '
(slash).
If
.I filename
is not given, the boot program uses a default value (normally
.BR vmunix ).
This is stored in the
.B vmunix
variable in the
.B boot
executable file supplied by Sun, but can
be patched to indicate another
standalone program loaded using
.BR adb (1).
.TP
.I filenum
Filenumber to load from 
.I tapedev
to
.IR diskdev .
Defaults to
.BR 3 ,
which is the location of the miniroot on current SunOS
distribution tapes.
.TP
.B \-a
Prompt interactively for the device and name of the file to boot.
For more information on how to boot from a specific device, refer to
.TX INSTALL .
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose.  
Print more detailed information to assist in
diagnosing diskless booting problems.
.TP
.I boot-flags
The boot program passes all
.I boot-flags
to the kernel or standalone program.
They are typically  arguments to
that program or, as with those listed below, arguments to programs
that it invokes.
.RS
.TP
.B \-b
Pass the
.B \-b
flag through the kernel to
.BR init (8)
to skip execution of the
.B /etc/rc.local
script.
.TP
.B \-h
Halt after loading the system.
.TP
.B \-s
Pass the
.B \-s
flag through the kernel to
.BR init (8)
for single-user operation.
.TP
.BI \-i " initname"
Pass the
.BI \-i " initname"
to the kernel to tell it to run
.I initname
as the first program rather than the default
.BR /sbin/init .
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /boot
standalone boot program
.TP
.BI /tftpboot/ address
symbolic link to the boot program for the client whose Internet address,
in uppercase hexadecimal, is
.I address
.TP
.B /tftpboot/boot.sun3
Sun-3 first stage boot program
.TP
.B /tftpboot/boot.sun4
Sun-4 first stage boot program
.TP
.B /usr/etc/in.tftpd
\s-1TFTP\s0
server
.TP
.B /usr/kvm/mdec/installboot
program to install boot blocks from a remote host
.TP
.B /vmunix
kernel file that is booted by default
.TP
.B /usr/kvm/boot
.TP
.B /etc/bootparams
file defining root and swap paths for clients
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR adb (1),
.BR arch (1),
.BR tftp (1C),
.BR bootparamd (8),
.BR init (8),
.BR kadb (8S),
.BR monitor (8S),
.BR mount (8),
.BR ndbootd (8C),
.BR openboot (8S),
.BR rc (8),
.BR reboot (8),
.BR tftpd (8C)
.LP
.TX INSTALL
.br
.TX ADMIN
.SH NOTES
.LP
NIS was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages (\s-1YP\s0).  The
functionality of the two remains the same; only the name has changed.
