.\" @(#)captoinfo.8v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5
.TH CAPTOINFO 8V "17 November 1987"
.SH NAME
captoinfo \- convert a termcap description into a terminfo description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR captoinfo
.RB [ " \-v " .\|.\|.\|]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-1 ]
.RB [ \-w
.IR width " ]"
.IR filename .\|.\|.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR /usr/5bin/captoinfo
.RB [ " \-v " .\|.\|.\|]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-1 ]
.RB [ \-w
.IR width " ]"
.IR filename .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "captoinfo command" "" "\fLcaptoinfo\fP command"
.B captoinfo
converts the
.BR termcap (5)
terminal description entries given in
.I filename
into
.BR terminfo (5V)
source entries, and writes them to the standard output along with any
comments found in that file.
A description that is expressed as relative to another description (as
specified in the
.B termcap
.IR tc=
capability) is reduced to the minimum superset before being written.
.LP
If no
.I filename
is given, then the environment variable
.SB TERMCAP
is used for the filename or entry.
If
.SB TERMCAP
is a full pathname to a file, only the terminal-name is specified in
the environment variable
.SB TERM
is extracted from that file.
If that environment variable is not set, then the file
.B /etc/termcap
is read.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose.  Print tracing information on the standard error as the
program runs.  Additional
.B \-v
options increase the level of detail.
.TP
.B \-V
Version.  Display the version of the program on the standard error and
exit.
.TP
.B \-1
Print fields one-per-line.
Otherwise, fields are printed several to a line, to a maximum width
of 60 characters.
.TP
.BI \-w " width"
Change the output to
.I width
characters.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /usr/share/lib/terminfo/?/*
compiled terminal description database
.TP
.B /etc/termcap
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curses (3V),
.BR termcap (5),
.BR terminfo (5V),
.BR infocmp (8V),
.BR tic (8V)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B tgetent failed with return code n (reason).
The termcap entry is not valid.
In particular, check for an invalid
.RB ` tc= '
entry.
.TP
.B
unknown type given for the termcap code \fIcc\f1.
The termcap description had an entry for
\fIcc\f1
whose type was not boolean, numeric or string.
.TP
.B
wrong type given for the boolean (numeric, string) termcap code \fIcc\f1.
The boolean
.B termcap
entry
\fIcc\f1
was entered as a numeric or string capability.
.TP
.B
the boolean (numeric, string) termcap code \fIcc\fB is not a valid name.
An unknown
.B termcap
code was specified.
.TP
.B tgetent failed on \s-1TERM\s0=term.
The terminal type specified could not be found in the
\fBtermcap\f1
file.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.SB TERM\s0=term: cap \fIcc\fP (info \fIii\fP) is \s-1NULL: REMOVED\s0
The
\fBtermcap\fR
code was specified as a null string.
The correct way to cancel an entry is with an
.RB ` @ ',
as in
.RB ` :bs@: '.
Giving a null string could cause incorrect
assumptions to be made by the software which uses
.BR "termcap " or " terminfo" .
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B
a function key for \fIcc\fB was specified, but it already has the value
\fIvv\f1.
When parsing the
\fBko\f1
capability, the key
\fIcc\f1
was specified as having the
same value as the capability
\fIcc\f1,
but the key
\fIcc\f1
already had a value
assigned to it.
.TP
.B
the unknown termcap name \fIcc\fB was specified in the \fBko\fB termcap capability.
A key was specified in the
\fBko\f1
capability which could not be handled.
.TP
.B
the \fIvi\fP character v (info \fIii\fP) has the value \fIxx\fB, but ma gives n.
The
\fBma\f1 capability specified a function key
with a value different from
that specified in another setting of the same key.
.TP
.B
the unknown \fIvi\fB key v was specified in the ma termcap capability.
A
.BR vi (1)
key unknown to
\fBcaptoinfo\f1
was specified in the
\fBma\f1
capability.
.TP
.B
Warning: termcap sg (\fInn\fP) and termcap ug (\fInn\fP) had different values.
\fBterminfo\f1 assumes that
the
\fBsg\f1
(now
\fBxmc\f1)
and
\fBug\f1
values were the same.
.TP
.B
Warning: the string produced for \fIii\fB may be inefficient.
The parameterized string being created should be rewritten by hand.
.TP
.B
Null termname given.
The terminal type was null.
This is given if
the environment variable
.SB TERM
is not set or is null.
.TP
.B
cannot open \fIfilename\fB for reading.
The specified file could not be opened.
.\".SH AUTHOR
.\"Tony Hansen.
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
Certain
.B termcap
defaults are assumed to be true.  The bell character
.RB ( terminfo
.BR bel )
is assumed to be
.BR ^G .
The linefeed capability
.RB ( termcap
.BR nl )
is assumed to be the same for both
.B cursor_down
and
.B scroll_forward
.RB ( terminfo
.BR cud1
and
.BR ind ,
respectively.)
Padding information is assumed to belong at the end of the string.
.LP
The algorithm used to expand parameterized information for
.B termcap
fields such as
.B cursor_position
.RB ( termcap
.BR cm ,
.B terminfo
.BR cup )
can sometimes produce a string that may not be optimal.
In particular, the rarely used
.B termcap
operation
.BI % n
produces strings that are especially long.
Most occurrences of these non-optimal strings
will be flagged with a warning
message and may need to be recoded by hand.
.LP
The short two-letter name at the beginning of the list of names in a
.B termcap
entry, a hold-over from an earlier version of the
system, has been removed.
