.\" @(#)catman.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD
.TH CATMAN 8 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
catman \- create the cat files for the manual
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/catman
.RB "[\|" \-nptw "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-M "
.B directory
]
.RB "[\|" \-T "
.I tmac.an
] [
.I sections
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "catman command"  ""  "\fLcatman\fP \(em create cat files for manual pages"
.IX  "create" "cat files for manual pages \(em \fLcatman\fP"
.IX  "manual pages"  "create \fLcat\fR files for \(em \fLcatman\fP"
.IX  "system administration"  catman  ""  "\fLcatman\fP \(em create cat files for manual pages"
.B catman
creates the preformatted versions of
the on-line manual from the
.BR nroff (1)
input files.
Each manual page is examined and those whose preformatted versions are
missing or out of date are recreated.
If any changes are made,
.B catman
recreates the
.B whatis
database.
.LP
If there is one parameter not starting with a
.RB ` \- ',
it is taken to be a list of manual sections to look in.
For example
.IP
.B catman 123
.LP
only updates manual sections
.BR 1 ,
.BR 2 ,
and
.BR 3 .
.LP
If an unformatted source file contains only a line
of the form
.RB ` ".so manx/yyy.x" ',
a symbolic link is made in the catx or fmtx directory
to the appropriate preformatted manual page.
This feature allows easy distribution of the preformatted manual pages
among a group of associated machines with
.BR rdist (1),
since it makes the directories of preformatted manual pages
self-contained and independent of the unformatted entries.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-n
Do not (re)create the
.B whatis
database.
.TP
.B \-p
Print what would be done instead of doing it.
.TP
.B \-t
Create
.BR troff ed
entries in the appropriate
.B fmt
subdirectories instead of
.BR nroff ing
into the
.B cat
subdirectories.
.TP
.B \-w
Only create the
.B whatis
database that is used by
.BR whatis (1)
and the
.BR man (1)
.B \-f
and
.B \-k
options.  No manual reformatting is done.
.TP
.B \-M
Update manual pages located in the specified
.B directory
.RB ( /usr/man
by default).
.TP
.B \-T
Use
.B tmac.an
in place of the standard manual page macros.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PD 0
.TP \w'\s-1TROFF\s0'u+(3n)u
.SB TROFF
The name of the formatter to use when the
.B \-t
flag is given.
If not set,
.RB ` troff '
is used.
.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /usr/[share]/man
default manual directory location
.TP
.B /usr/[share]/man/man?/*.*
raw (nroff input) manual sections
.TP
.B /usr/[share]/man/cat?/*.*
preformatted
.BR nroff ed
manual pages
.TP
.B /usr/[share]/man/fmt?/*.*
preformatted
.BR troff ed
manual pages
.TP
.B /usr/[share]/man/whatis	
.B whatis
database location
.TP
.B /usr/lib/makewhatis
command script to make whatis database
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR apropos (1),
.BR man (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR rdist (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR whatis (1)
.SH NOTES
.LP
If the
.B \-n
option is specified,
the
.B /usr/man/whatis
database is not created and
the
.BR apropos ,
.BR whatis ,
.RB ` "man \-f" ',
and
.RB ` "man \-k" '
commands will fail.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B
man?/xxx.? (.so'ed from man?/yyy.?): No such file or directory
The file outside the parentheses is missing, and is referred to
by the file inside them.
.TP
.B
target of .so in man?/xxx.? must be relative to /usr/man
.B catman
only allows references to filenames that are relative to the directory
.BR /usr/man .
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B opendir:man?: No such file or directory
A harmless warning message indicating that one of the directories
.B catman
normally looks for is missing.
.TP
.B *.*: No such file or directory
A harmless warning message indicating
.B catman
came across an empty directory.
