.\" @(#)client.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; 
.TH CLIENT 8 "%20 December 1988%"
.SH NAME
client \- add or remove diskless Sun386i systems
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.B client 
[
.B \-a
.I arch
] [
.B \-h
.I hostid
] [ 
.B \-o
.I os
] [
.B \-q
] [
.B \-t
.I minutes
]
.B add 
.I bootserver
.I client 
.I etheraddress
.I ipaddress
.LP
.B client remove
.I client
.LP
.B client modify
.I client
[
.B diskful
|
.B diskless
|
.B slave
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "client command" "" "\fLclient\fP command"
.LP
.B client
can be used to manually add and remove diskless clients of a PNP
boot server.
After successful completion of the command, the diskless client
can boot.
Only users in the
.I networks
group (group 12) on the boot server
are allowed to change configurations using this utility. 
.B client
can be invoked from any system on the network.
.LP
The boot server
of a system is the only machine truly required for that system to boot to
the point of allowing user logins; it must accordingly provide
name, booting, and time services.
Diskless clients can provide none of these services themselves.
Diskful clients, however can provide most of their own boot services.
Network clients only need name and time services from the network,
and can use any boot server.
.LP
To add a diskless client, use the 
.B add
operation.  To remove a
diskless, diskful, or network client, use the
.B remove 
operation.  To change a system's network role, use the
.B modify
operation.
.LP
A server can reject a configuration request if it is disallowed by the
contents of the 
.B bootservers
map (e.g., too many clients would
be configured, or too little free space would be left on the server),
or if no system software for the client is available.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI \-a " arch
Specifies the architecture code of the client; it defaults to
.BR s386 .
(Note: architecture codes are different from architecture
names.  Architecture codes are used in diskless booting, and are
at most five characters in length, while architecture names can be
longer.)
.TP
.BI \-h " hostid
Specifies the host ID of the client; if supplied, it is used
as the root password for the system.  It defaults to the null
string.
.TP
.BI \-o " os
Specifies the operating system; defaults to 'unix'.  This
is currently used only to construct the system's 
.I publickey
data,
where applicable; this is never done if the system has no 
.I hostid
specified.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet.  Displays only error messages.
.TP
.BI \-t " minutes
Sets the 
.SM RPC 
timeout to the number of minutes indicated; this
defaults to 15 minutes.  If the bootserver takes more time than this 
to complete, 
.B client
will exit.  Unless the server has
already completed setup, but not yet sent status to 
.BR client ,
this will cause the bootserver to back out of the setup, deallocating
all assigned resources.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR publickey (5)
.BR netconfig (8C),
.BR pnpd (8C), 
.SH BUGS
.\".LP
.\"The concept of a default architecture should go away.
.LP
Unless the 
.I hostid
is assigned, the root filesystem for the diskless
client is not set up beyond copying the 
.B proto 
and 
.B boot
files
into it.
This means that 
.B netconfig
will often handle other parts of the setup.
