.\" @(#)crash.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5r3
.TH CRASH 8 "26 October 1988"
.SH NAME
crash \- examine system images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/crash
[
.BI \-d " dump-file"
] [
.BI \-n " namelist-file"
] [
.BI \-w " output-file"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "crash examine" "" "\fLcrash\fR \(em examine system images" ""
.IX "control structures" "examine"
.IX "system images" "examine"
.IX "memory image" "examine"
.IX "look" "at system images"
.IX "examine" "system images"
.LP
.B crash
examines the memory image of a live or a crashed system kernel.
It displays the values of system control structures, tables,
and other pertinent information.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI \-d " dump-file"
Specify the file containing the system memory image.
The default is
.BR /dev/mem .
.TP
.BI \-n " namelist-file"
Specify the text file containing the symbol table
for symbolic access to the memory image.
The default is
.BR /vmunix .
If a system image from another machine is to be
examined, the image file must be copied from that
machine.
.TP
.BI \-w " output-file"
Specify a file for
.B crash
output.
The default is the standard output.
.SH USAGE
.LP
For commands that pertain to a process, the default process
is the one currently running on a live system, or the one that was
running at the time the system crashed.
.LP
If the contents of a table are being dumped, the default is all active
table entries.
.SS Numeric Notation
.LP
Depending on the command, numeric arguments are
assumed to be in a specific base.  Counts are assumed to be
decimal.  Addresses are always hexadecimal.
Table addresses larger than the size of the specified table
are interpreted as hexadecimal addresses; smaller arguments
are assumed to be in decimal.
The default base of any argument may be overridden;
the C conventions for designating the base of a number are recognized.
(A number that is usually interpreted as decimal will be interpreted
as hexadecimal if it is preceded by 
.B 0x 
and as octal if it is preceded by 
.BR 0 .
Decimal override is designated by
.BR 0d , 
and binary by 
.BR 0b .)
.SS Expressions
.LP
Many commands accept several forms of an argument.
Requests for table information accept a table entry number,
a physical address, a virtual address, a symbol, a range, or an expression. 
A range of slot numbers may be specified in the form 
.I a\-b
where
.IR a " and " b 
are decimal numbers.  An expression consists of two operands
and an operator.
An operand may be an address, a symbol, or a number. The operator
may be 
.\" The following in-line font changes are necessary to get the double
.\" quotes to print correctly in nroff. -jah
\*(lq\fB+\fR\*(rq (plus sign),
\*(lq\fB\-\fR\*(rq (minus sign),
\*(lq\fB*\fR\*(rq (multiplication symbol),
\*(lq\fB/\fR\*(rq (division symbol),
\*(lq\fB&\fR\*(rq (logical
.SM AND\s0), 
or 
\*(lq\fB|\fR\*(rq (logical
.SM OR\s0).
An operand which is a number should be preceded by a radix prefix
if it is not a decimal number 
.RB ( 0
for octal, 
.B 0x 
for hexidecimal,
.B 0b 
for binary).
The expression must be enclosed in 
.RB ` (\|) '
(parentheses).
Other commands accept any of these argument forms
that are meaningful.
.LP
Two abbreviated arguments to 
.B crash 
commands are used throughout.  Both accept data entered 
in several forms.  A
.I table_entry 
argument may be an address, symbol, range or expression that
resolves to one of these.
A
.I start_addr
argument may be an address, symbol, or expression that resolves
to one of those.
.SS Commands
.sp .5
.HP
.B ? 
[
.BI \-w " filename"
]
.br
List available commands.
.RS
.RS
.TP
.BI \-w " filename"
Redirect the output of a command to the
named file. Corresponds to the
.B redirect
command.
.RE
.RE
.TP
.BI ! command
Escape to the shell to execute a command.
.HP
.B adv  
[
.B \-ep
]
[
.BI \-w " filename"
]
[
.IR table_entry
] .\|.\|. 
.br
Print the advertise table.
.RS
.RS
.TP
.B \-e
Display every entry in a table.
.TP
.B \-p
Interpret all address arguments in the command line
as physical addresses.  With this option,
all address and symbol arguments
explicitly entered on the command line are
interpreted as physical addresses.
Corresponds to the
.B mode
command.
.RE
.RE
.HP
.B as
[
.BR \-w filename
] [
.B \-p
]
.IR proc_entry \||\|
.BI # pid
[
.B s
] ]
.br
Print the address space table.
.HP
.B base 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
] 
.IR number " .\|.\|. "
.br
Print 
.I number 
in binary, octal, decimal, and hexadecimal.  
A number in a radix other then decimal should be 
preceded by a prefix that indicates its radix as follows:
.BR 0x ", hexidecimal;"
.BR 0 ", octal; and"
.BR 0b ", binary."
.HP
.B buffer 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.BI \- format
] 
.I bufferslot
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.B buffer 
[
.B \-p
]
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.BI \- format
]
.I start_addr
.br
.PD
Alias: 
.BR b .
.br
Print the contents of a buffer in the designated format.  
The following format designations are recognized: 
.BR \-b ", byte;" 
.BR \-c ", character;" 
.BR \-d ", decimal;" 
.BR \-x ", hexadecimal;" 
.BR \-o ", octal;" 
.BR \-r ", directory; and" 
.BR \-i ", inode."
If no format is given, the previous format is used.  
The default format at the beginning of a 
.B crash 
session is hexadecimal.
.HP
.B bufhdr 
[
.B \-fp
]
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.I table_entry
] .\|.\|.
.br
Alias: 
.BR buf .
.br
Print system buffer headers.
.RS
.RS
.TP
.B \-f
Display the full structure.
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B callout 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
.br
Alias: 
.BR c .
.br
Print the callout table.
.HP
.B ctx
[
.BI \-w filename
]
[ [
.B \-p
]
.IR tbl_entry \|.\|.\|.
]
.br
Print the context table.
.\" .TP
.\" .B dballoc 
.\" [
.\" .B \-w 
.\" .I filename
.\" ] [
.\" .IR class " .\|.\|. "
.\" ]
.\" .br
.\" Print the dballoc table.  If a class is entered,
.\" only data block allocation information for that class will be printed.
.TP
.B dbfree  
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
.\" [
.\" .IR class " .\|.\|. "
.\" ]
.br
Print free streams data block headers.  If a class is entered,
only data block headers for the class specified will be printed.
.\" .br
.\" .ne 12
.\".TP
.\".B dblock 
.\"[
.\".B \-e
.\"] [
.\".B \-c
.\".IR class " .\|.\|. "
.\"] [
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"]
.\".br
.\".PD 0
.TP
.B dblock 
[
.B \-ep
] [
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.I dblk_addr
] .\|.\|.
.br
.PD
Print allocated streams data block headers.
If the class option 
.RB ( \-c ) 
is used, only data block headers for the class specified will be printed.
.TP
.B defproc 
[
.B \-c
] [
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
.br
.PD 0
.TP
.B defproc 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
] [
.I slot
]
.br
.PD
Set the value of the process slot argument.
The process slot argument may be set to the current slot number 
.RB ( \-c ) 
or the slot number may be specified.  If no argument
is entered, the value of the previously set slot number is printed.
At the start of a 
.B crash 
session, the process slot is set to the current process.
.\".HP
.\".B dis 
.\"[
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"] [
.\".B \-a
.\"] 
.\".I start_addr 
.\"[
.\".I count
.\"]
.\".br
.\"Disassemble from the start address for 
.\".I count 
.\"instructions. The default count is 1. The absolute option 
.\".RB ( \-a ) 
.\"specifies a non-symbolic disassembly.
.HP
.B ds 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
] 
.IR  virtual_address " .\|.\|. "
.br
Print the data symbol whose address is closest to, but not
greater than, the address entered.
.HP
.B file
[
.B \-ep
]
[
.B \-w 
.I filename 
]
[
.I table_entry
] .\|.\|.
.br
Alias: 
.BR f .
.br
Print the file table.
.HP
.B findaddr 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
] 
.I "table slot"
.br
Print the address of
.I slot
in
.IR table .
Only tables available to the 
.B size 
command are available to 
.BR findaddr .
.\".HP
.\".B findslot 
.\"[
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"] 
.\".IR virtual_address " .\|.\|. "
.\".br
.\"Print the table, entry slot number, and offset for the
.\"address entered.  Only tables available to the 
.\".B size 
.\"command are available to
.\".BR findslot .
.\".HP
.\".B fs 
.\"[
.\".B \-p
.\"]
.\"[
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"]
.\"[
.\".IR table_entry
.\"] .\|.\|.
.\".br
.\"Print the file system information table.
.HP
.B gdp 
[
.B \-efp
]
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.IR table_entry
] .\|.\|.
.br
Print the gift descriptor protocol table.
.HP
.B help 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
] 
.IR command " .\|.\|. "
.br
Print a description of the named command, including syntax and aliases.
.HP
.B inode 
[
.B \-f
]
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.IR table_entry
] .\|.\|.
.br
Alias: 
.BR i .
.br
Print the inode table, including file system switch information.
.HP
.B kfp 
[
.B \-r
] [
.B \-s 
.I process
] [
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.B kfp 
[
.B \-s 
.I process
] [
.B \-w 
.I filename
] [
.I value
]
.br
.PD
Print the frame pointer for the start of a kernel stack trace.  The 
.B kfp 
value can be set using the value argument or the reset option 
.RB ( \-r ), 
which sets the 
.B kfp 
through the nvram.  If no argument
is entered, the current value of the 
.B kfp 
is printed. 
.RS
.RS
.TP 12
.BI \-s " process"
Specify a process slot other than the
default. Corresponds to the
.B defproc
command.
.RE
.RE
.\".HP
.\".B lck 
.\"[
.\".B \-ep
.\"]
.\"[
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"]
.\"[
.\".IR table_entry
.\"] .\|.\|.
.\".br
.\"Alias: 
.\".BR l .
.\".br
.\"Print record locking information.  If the 
.\".B \-e 
.\"option is used or table address arguments are given, 
.\"the record lock list is printed.  If no argument is
.\"entered, information on locks relative to inodes is printed.  
.HP
.B linkblk 
[
.B \-ep
]
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.IR table_entry
] .\|.\|.
.br
Print the 
.B linkblk 
table.
.\".HP
.\".B major
.\"[
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"]
.\"[
.\".IR entry " .\|.\|. "
.\"]
.\".br
.\"Print the 
.\".SM MAJOR 
.\"table.
.HP
.B map 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
] 
.IR mapname " .\|.\|. " 
.br
Alias:
.BR m .
.br
Print the map structure of 
.IR mapname .
.HP
.B mbfree 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
.br
Print free streams message block headers.
.HP
.B mblock 
[
.B \-ep
]
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.I mblk_addr
] .\|.\|.
.br
Print allocated streams message block headers.
.\".HP
.\".B mmu 
.\"[
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"]
.\".br
.\"Alias: 
.\".BR regs .
.\".br
.\"Print memory management unit registers.
.\"These registers are not available on a running system.
.HP
.B mode 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.I mode
]
.br
Set address translation of arguments to virtual 
.RB ( v ) 
or physical 
.RB ( p ) 
mode.  If no mode argument is given, the current mode is 
printed.  At the start of a 
.B crash 
session, the mode is virtual.
.HP
.B mount 
[
.B \-p
]
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.IR table_entry
] .\|.\|.
.br
Alias: 
.BR m .
.br
Print the mount table.
.HP
.B nm 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
] 
.IR symbol " .\|.\|. " 
.br
Print value and type for the given symbol.
.\".HP
.\".B nvram 
.\"[
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"] 
.\".I type
.\".br
.\"Print 
.\".B nvram 
.\"information of one of four types.
.\".I type 
.\"may be 
.\".BR fwnvr , 
.\".BR unxnvr , 
.\".BR systate ", or" 
.\".BR errlog .
.HP
.B od 
[
.B \-p
]
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.BI \- format
]
[
.BI \- mode
]
[
.B \-s 
.I process
] 
.I start_addr 
[
.I count
]
.br
Alias: 
.BR rd .
.br
Print 
.I count 
values starting at the start address in one of the following
formats:
.RS
.RS
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-c
character 
.TP
.B \-d
decimal
.TP
.B \-x
hexadecimal
.TP
.B \-o
octal
.TP
.B \-a
.SM ASCII
.TP
.B \-h
hexadecimal character
.PD
.RE
.RE
.IP
and one of the following modes:
.RS
.RS
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-l
long 
.TP
.B \-t
short
.TP
.B \-b
byte
.PD
.RE
.RE
.IP
The default mode for character and 
.SM ASCII
formats is byte;
the default mode for decimal, hexadecimal, and octal formats is long.
The format 
.B \-h 
prints both hexadecimal and character
representations of the addresses dumped;
no mode needs to be specified.
When format or mode is omitted, the previous value is used.
At the start of a
.B crash 
session, the format is hexadecimal and the mode is long.
If no count is entered, 1 is assumed.
.HP
.B page
[
.B \-e
]
[
.BI \-w filename
]
[ [
.B \-p
]
.I tbl_entry
]
\&.\|.\|.
.br
Alias:
.BR p .
.br
Print the page structures.
.HP
.B pcb 
.\"[
.\".B \-u
.\"]
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.I process
]
.br
.\".PD 0
.\".HP
.\".B pcb 
.\"[
.\".B \-k
.\"]
.\"[
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"]
.\"[
.\".I process
.\"]
.\".br
.\".HP
.\".B pcb 
.\"[
.\".B \-p
.\"]
.\"[
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"]
.\"[
.\".B \-i 
.\".I start_addr
.\"]
.\".br
.\".PD
Print the process control block.  If no arguments are given,
the active 
.B pcb 
for the current process is printed.
.\"The user option 
.\".RB ( \-u )
.\"prints the user 
.\".B pcb 
.\"and the kernel option 
.\".RB ( \-k ) 
.\"prints the kernel
.\".B pcb 
.\"associated with the process.  The interrupt option 
.\".RB ( \-i ) 
.\"prints the interrupt 
.\".B pcb 
.\"located at the start address.
.\" .br
.\" .ne 13
.\".HP
.\".B pdt 
.\"[
.\".B \-e
.\"] [
.\".B \-s 
.\".I process
.\"] [
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"] 
.\".I section\ \ segment
.\".br
.\".PD 0
.\".HP
.\".B pdt 
.\"[
.\".B \-ep
.\"]
.\"[
.\".B \-s 
.\".I process
.\"]
.\"[
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"]
.\"[
.\".I start_addr
.\"[
.\".I count
.\"]\|]
.\".br
.\".PD
.\"The page descriptor table of the designated memory 
.\".IR  section " and " segment 
.\"is printed.  Alternatively, the page descriptor 
.\"table starting at the start address for 
.\".I count
.\"entries is printed.  If no count is entered, 1 is assumed.
.\".HP
.\".B pfdat 
.\"[
.B \-ep
.\"]
.\"[
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"]
.\"[
.\".IR table_entry
.\"] .\|.\|.
.\".br
.\"Print the 
.\".B pfdata 
.\"table.
.\".br
.\".ne 12
.HP
.B pment
[
.B \-p
]
[
.BI \-w filename
]
.I tbl_entry
\&.\|.\|.
.br
Print the page map entry table
(not available on machines with a 
.B sun3x
kernel architecture).
.HP
.B pmgrp
[
.BI \-w filename
]
[ [
.B \-p
]
.IR tbl_entry \|.\|.\|.
]
.br
Print the page map group table
(not available on machines with a 
.B sun3x
kernel architecture).
.HP
.B proc 
[
.B \-fp
] 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.BI # pid
] .\|.\|.
[
.IR table_entry
] .\|.\|.
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.B proc 
[
.B \-fr
] [
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
.br
.PD
.\"Alias: 
.\".BR p .
.\".br
Print the process table.
Process table information may be specified in two ways.
First, any mixture of table entries and process
.SM ID\s0s
(\s-1PID\s0) 
may be entered.  Each 
.SM PID 
must be preceded by a 
.RB  ` # '
(pound sign).
Alternatively, process table information 
for runnable processes may be specified with
the runnable option 
.RB ( \-r ).
.HP
.B qrun 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
.br
Print the list of scheduled streams queues.
.HP
.B queue 
[
.B \-p
]
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.I queue_addr
] .\|.\|.
.br
Print stream queues.
.br
.ne 6
.TP
.B quit 
Alias: 
.BR  q .
.br
Terminate the 
.B crash 
session.
.TP
.B rcvd 
[
.B \-efp
] 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.I table_entry
] .\|.\|.
.br
Print the receive descriptor table.
.HP
.B redirect 
[
.B \-c
] [
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.B redirect 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
] [
.I filename
]
.br
Alias:
.BR rd .
.br
.PD
Used with a name, redirects output of a 
.B crash 
session to the named file. If no argument is given, the
file name to which output is being redirected is printed.
Alternatively, the close option 
.RB ( \-c ) 
closes the previously set 
file and redirects output to the standard output.
To pipe output from a single
.B crash
command, use an exclamation point followed by a shell command:
.RS
.RS
.IB "crash-command " ! " shell-command"
.RE
.RE
.IP
This is not available when
.B \-w
is in effect.
.\".HP
.\".B region 
.\"[
.\".B \-efp
.\"]
.\"[
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"]
.\"[
.\".I table_entry
.\"] .\|.\|.
.\".br
.\"Print the region table.
.\".HP
.\".B sdt 
.\"[
.\".B \-e
.\"] [
.\".B \-s 
.\".I process
.\"] [
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"] 
.\".I section
.\".br
.\".PD 0
.\".HP
.\".B sdt 
.\"[
.\".B \-ep
.\"] [
.\".B \-s 
.\".I process
.\"] [
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"]
.\".I start_addr
.\"[
.\".I count
.\"]
.\".br
.\".PD
.\"The segment descriptor table for the named memory section is printed.
.\"Alternatively, the segment descriptor table starting at start address for 
.\".I count
.\"entries is printed.  If no count is given, a count of 1 is assumed.
.HP
.B search 
[
.B \-p
] [
.B \-m 
.I mask
] [
.B \-s 
.I process
] [
.B \-w 
.I filename
] 
.I pattern\ \ start_addr\ \ length
.br
Alias:
.BR s .
.br
Print the words in memory that match
.IR pattern ,
beginning at the start address for 
.I length
words.  The mask is 
.SM AND\s0ed 
(&) with each memory word and the result
compared against the pattern.  The mask defaults to
.BR 0xffffffff .
.HP
.B seg
[
.BI \-w filename
]
[ [
.BI \-p
]
.I proc_entry
]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.B seg
[
.BI \-w filename
]
[
.IR #procid \|.\|.\|.
]
.br
Print the segment table of process.
.HP
.B segdata
[
.BI \-w filename
]
[ [
.BI \-p
]
.I proc_entry
]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.B segdata
[
.BI \-w filename
]
[
.IR #procid \|.\|.\|.
]
.br
Print the segment data of process.
.HP
.B size 
[
.B \-x
] [
.B \-w 
.I filename
] [
.IR structure_name " .\|.\|. " 
]
.br
Print the size of the designated structure.  The 
.B \-x 
option prints the size in hexadecimal.  If no argument is
given, a list of the structure names for which sizes are available is printed.
.HP
.B sndd 
[
.B \-efp
]
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.I table_entry
] .\|.\|.
.br
Print the send descriptor table.
.\".HP
.\".B srams 
.\"[
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"]
.\".br
.\"Print the 
.\".B sram 
.\"values.
.HP
.B srmount 
[
.B \-ep
]
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.I table_entry
] .\|.\|.
.br
Print the server mount table.
.HP
.B stack 
[
.B \-u
] [
.B \-w 
.I filename
] [
.I process
]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.B stack 
[
.B \-k
] [
.B \-w 
.I filename
] [
.I process
]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.B stack 
[
.B \-p
]
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
.B \-i 
.I start_addr
]
.br
.PD
Alias: 
.BR s .
.br
Dump stack.  The 
.B \-u 
option prints the user stack.  The 
.B \-k 
option prints the kernel stack.  The
.B \-i 
option prints the interrupt stack starting at
the start address.  If no arguments are entered, the kernel stack 
for the current process is printed.
The interrupt stack and the stack for the current process are not
available on a running system.
.HP
.B status 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
.br
Print system statistics.
.HP
.B stream 
[
.B \-efp
] 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
[
.I table_entry
] .\|.\|.
.br
Print the streams table.
.HP
.B strstat 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
.br
Print streams statistics.
.br
.ne 12
.HP
.B trace 
[
.B \-r
] [
.B \-w 
.I filename
] [
.I process
]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.B trace 
[
.B \-p
]
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
] 
.B \-i
.I start_addr
]
.br
.PD
Alias: 
.BR t .
.br
Print stack trace.  The 
.B kfp 
value is used with the 
.B \-r 
option.  The interrupt option prints a trace of the interrupt
stack beginning at the start address.
The interrupt stack trace and the stack trace for the current
process are not available on a running system.
.HP
.B ts 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
] 
.IR virtual_address " .\|.\|. "
.br
Print closest text symbol to the designated address.
.\".HP
.\".B tty 
.\"[
.\".B \-efp
.\"]
.\"[
.\".B \-w
.\".I filename
.\"] [
.\".B \-t 
.\".I type
.\"]
.\"[
.\".I table_entry
.\"] .\|.\|.
.\".br
.\".PD 0
.\".HP
.\".B tty
.\"[
.\".B \-efp
.\"] 
.\"[
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"]
.\"[
.\".I start_addr
.\"]
.\".br
.\".PD
.\"Valid types: 
.\".BR pp , 
.\".BR iu .
.\".br
.\"Print the tty table. 
.\"If no arguments are given, the tty table for both tty types is printed.
.\"If the 
.\".B \-t 
.\"option is used, the table for the single tty type specified is printed.
.\"If no argument follows the type
.\"option, all entries in the table are printed.
.\"A single tty entry may be specified from the start address.
.HP
.B user 
[
.B \-f
] [
.B \-w 
.I filename
] [
.I process
]
.br
Alias: 
.BR u .
.br
Print the ublock for the designated process.
.\".HP
.\".B var 
.\"[
.\".B \-w 
.\".I filename
.\"]
.\".br
.\"Alias: 
.\".BR v .
.\".br
.\"Print the tunable system parameters.
.HP
.B vfs
[
.BI \-w filename
]
[ [
.B \-p
]
.IR tbl_entry \|.\|.\|.
]
.br
Print the 
.B vfs
table.
.HP
.B vnode
[
.BI \-w filename
]
[ [
.B \-p
]
.I addr
]
.br
Alias:
.BR v .
.br
Print the vnode table.
.HP
.B vtop 
[
.B \-s 
.I process
] 
[
.B \-w 
.I filename
]
.IR start_addr " .\|.\|. "
.br
Print the physical address translation of the virtual start address.
.br
.ne 5
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /dev/mem		
system image of currently running system
.TP
.B /var/crash/\fImachine\fP/vmcore.\fIN\fP
.TP
.B /var/crash/\fImachine\fP/vmunix.\fIN\fP
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR savecore (8)
