.\" @(#)cron.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH CRON 8 "6 December 1988"
.SH NAME
cron \- clock daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/cron
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "cron command"  ""  "\fLcron\fP \(em clock daemon"
.IX  "timed events"  ""  "timed events \(em \fLcron\fP"
.IX  "execute commands at specified times"  ""  "execute commands at specified times \(em \fLcron\fP"
.B cron
executes commands at specified dates and times.
Regularly scheduled commands can be specified according
to instructions found in
.B crontab
files in the directory
.BR /var/spool/cron/crontabs .
Users can submit their own
.B crontab
files using the
.BR crontab (1)
command.
Commands that are to be executed only once may be
submitted using the
.BR at (1)
command.
.LP
.B cron
only examines
.B crontab
files and
.B at
command files during process
initialization and when a file changes using
.B crontab
or
.BR at .
This reduces the overhead of checking for new or
changed files at regularly scheduled intervals.
.LP
Since
.B cron
never exits, it should only be executed once.  This is normally done
by running
.B cron
from the initialization process through the file
.BR /etc/rc ;
see
.BR init (8).
.B /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0
is a
.SM FIFO
file that
.B crontab
and
.B at
use to communicate with
.BR cron ;
it is also used as a lock file to prevent
the execution of more than one
.BR cron .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /var/spool/cron
main cron directory
.TP
.B /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0
.SM FIFO
for sending messages to
.B cron
.TP
.B /var/spool/cron/crontabs
directory containing
.B crontab
files
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR at (1),
.BR crontab (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR queuedefs (5),
.BR init (8),
.BR syslogd (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B cron
logs various errors to the system log daemon,
.BR syslogd (8),
with a facility code of
.BR cron .
The messages are listed here, grouped by severity level.
.SS Err Severity
.TP
.BI "Can't create /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0: " reason
.B cron
was unable to start up because it could not create
.BR /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0 .
.TP
.BI "Can't access /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0: " reason
.B cron
was unable to start up because it could not access
.BR /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0 .
.TP
.BI "Can't open /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0: " reason
.B cron
was unable to start up because it could not open
.BR /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0 .
.TP
.B
Can't start cron - another cron may be running (/var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0 exists)
.B cron
found that
.B /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0
already existed when it was started; this normally means that
.B cron
had already been started, but it may mean that an earlier
.B cron
terminated abnormally without removing
.BR /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0 .
.TP
.BI "Can't stat /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0: " reason
.B cron
could not get the status of
.BR /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0 .
.TP
.BI "Can't change directory to " directory : reason
.B cron
could not change to
.IR directory .
.TP
.BI "Can't read " directory : reason
.B cron
could not read
.IR directory .
.TP
.BI "error reading message: " reason
An error occurred when
.B cron
tried to read a control message from
.BR /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0 .
.br
.ne 8
.TP
.B message received \(em bad format
A message was successfully read by
.B cron
from
.BR /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0 ,
but the message was not of a form recognized by
.BR cron .
.TP
.SB SIGTERM\s0
received
.B cron
was told to terminate by having a
.SM SIGTERM
signal sent to it.
.TP
.BI "cron could not unlink /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0: " reason
.B cron
was told to terminate, but it was unable to unlink
.B /var/spool/cron/\s-1FIFO\s0
before it terminated.
.TP
.B ******* \s-1CRON ABORTED\s0 ********
.B cron
terminated, either due to an error or because it was told to.
.TP
.BI "Can't open queuedefs file " file : reason
.B cron
could not open a
.I queuedefs
file.
.TP
.BI "\s-1I/O\s0 error reading queuedefs file " file : reason
An
.SM I/O
error occurred while
.B cron
was reading a
.I queuedefs
file.
.TP
.B Using default queue definitions
An error occurred while trying to read a
.I queuedefs
file; the default queue definitions will be used.
.TP
.BI "Can't allocate " number "bytes of space"
An internal error occurred in
.B cron
while trying to allocate memory.
.SS Info Severity
.TP
.IB queue " queue max run limit reached"
There were more jobs running or to be run in the queue
.I queue
than the maximum number specified.
.B cron
will wait until one of the currently-running jobs completes before
starting to run a new one.
.TP
.SB MAXRUN\s0 (25) procs reached
There were more than 25 jobs running or to be run by
.BR cron .
.B cron
will wait until one of the currently-running jobs completes before
starting to run a new one.
.TP
.B *** cron started ***
.B cron
started running.
.TP
.BI ">  \s-1CMD\s0: " " pid queue command job"
A
.B cron
job was started, in queue
.IR queue ,
with process
.SM ID
.IR pid .
.I command
is the command to be run.
For
.B at
or
.B batch
jobs,
.IR job
is the job number.
.TP
.BI ">" " user pid queue time job"
A
.B cron
job was started for user
.IR user ,
in queue
.IR queue ,
with process
.SM ID
.IR pid ,
at the date and time
.IR time .
For
.B at
or
.B batch
jobs,
.IR job
is the job number.
.TP
.BI <  " user pid queue time job status"
A
.B cron
job completed for user
.IR user ,
in queue
.IR queue ,
with process
.SM ID
.IR pid ,
at the date and time
.IR time .
For
.B at
or
.B batch
jobs,
.IR job
is the job number.
If the command terminated with a non-zero exit status or a signal,
.I status
indicates the exit status or signal.
.SS Notice Severity
.TP
.B Can't fork
An attempt to
.B fork (2)
to run a new job failed;
.B cron
will attempt again after a 30-second delay.
.SS Warning Severity
.TP
.BI "Can't stat queuedefs file " file : reason
.B cron
could not get the status of a
.I queuedefs
file in order to determine whether it has changed.
.B cron
will assume it has changed and will reread it.
