.\" @(#)dcheck.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH DCHECK 8 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
dcheck \- file system directory consistency check
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/dcheck
[
.B \-i
.I numbers
] [
.I filesystem
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "dcheck command"  ""  "\fLdcheck\fP \(em directory consistency check"
.IX  "check directory"  ""  "check directory \(em \fLdcheck\fP"
.IX  directory  "check consistency"  ""  "check consistency \(em \fLdcheck\fP"
.IX  "file system"  "check directory"  ""  "check directory \(em \fLdcheck\fP"
.LP
Note:
.B dcheck
has been superseded for normal consistency checking by
.BR fsck (8).
.LP
.B dcheck
reads the directories in a file system and compares
the link-count in each inode with the number of directory
entries by which it is referenced.
If the file system is not specified,
.B dcheck
checks a set of default file systems.
.LP
.B dcheck
is fastest if the raw version of the special file is
used, since the i-list is read in large chunks.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-i\fP  " numbers"
.I numbers
is a list of i-numbers; when one of those i-numbers turns
up in a directory, the number, the i-number of the directory,
and the name of the entry are reported.
.SH FILES
Default file systems vary with installation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fs (5),
.BR fsck (8),
.BR clri (8),
.BR icheck (8),
.BR ncheck (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When a file turns up for which the link-count and the number
of directory entries disagree, the relevant facts are reported.
Allocated files which have 0 link-count and no entries are also listed.
The only dangerous situation occurs
when there are more entries than links;
if entries are removed, so the link-count drops to 0,
the remaining entries point to thin air.  They should be removed.
When there are more links than entries, or there is
an allocated file with neither links nor entries,
some disk space may be lost but the situation will not degenerate.
.SH BUGS
Since
.B dcheck
is inherently two-pass in nature, extraneous diagnostics
may be produced if applied to active file systems.
.LP
Inode numbers less than 2 are invalid.
