.\" @(#)diskusg.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2
.TH DISKUSG 8 "13 January 1990"
.SH NAME
diskusg \- generate disk accounting data by user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B diskusg
[
.B \-sv
] [
.BI \-p " filename"
] [
.BI \-u " filename"
] [
.IR filename \|.\|.\|.
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "diskusg" "" "\fLdiskusg\fP \(em generate disk accounting data by user" ""
.LP
.B diskusg
generates intermediate disk accounting information
from data in
.IR filename ,
or the standard input if 
.I filename
is omitted.
.B diskusg
displays one line per user on the standard output
in the following format:
.IP
.I "uid  login  #blocks"
.LP
.I uid
is the numerical user
.SM ID
of the user.
.I login
is the user's login name.
.I #blocks
is the total number of disk blocks
allocated to the user.
.LP
.B diskusg
normally reads only the i-nodes
of file systems for disk accounting.
In this case,
.IR filename s
are the special filenames of these devices.
.LP
The output of
.B diskusg
is normally the input to
.B acctdisk
(see
.BR acct (8))
which generates total accounting records that can be
merged with other accounting records.
.B diskusg
is normally run in
.B dodisk
(see
.BR acctsh (8)).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B \-s
The input data is already in
.B diskusg
output format;
combine all lines for a single user into a single line.
.TP 12
.B \-v
Print a list to the standard error of all
files that are not charged to any user.
.TP 12
.BI \-p " filename "
Use
.I filename
as the name of the password file to generate
login names.
.B /etc/passwd
is used by default.
.TP 12
.BI \-u " filename "
Write records to
.I filename
of files that are not charged to any user.
Records consist of the special file name,
the i-node number, and the user
.SM ID\s0.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following example generates daily disk accounting information:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
for i in /dev/xy0a /dev/xy0g /dev/xy1g; do
	diskusg $i > dtmp.`basename $i` &
done
wait
diskusg \-s dtmp.* | sort +0n +1 | acctdisk > disktacct
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/passwd
used for user
.SM ID
to login name conversions
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acct (5),
.BR acct (8),
.BR acctsh (8)
