.\" @(#)dorfs.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH DORFS 8 "30 September 1988"
.SH NAME
dorfs \- initialize, start and stop RFS automatically
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dorfs
.B init
.I domain\ \ netspec
.RI [ address ]
.br
.B dorfs
.BR start
[
.B \-v
]
.br
.B dorfs
.B stop
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I \s-1RFS\s0
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "dorfs initialize" "" "\fLdorfs\fR \(em start and stop RFS automatically" ""
.IX RFS "start and stop automatically" "\fBRFS\fR" "start and stop automatically"
.IX start "RFS automatically" "start" "\s-1RFS\s0 automatically"
.IX stop "RFS automatically" stop "\s-1RFS\s0 automatically"
.IX initialize RFS initialize \s-1RFS\s0
.LP
.B dorfs 
sets up necessary environment to run 
Remote File Sharing
(\s-1RFS\s0).
You can also use it to start or stop
.SM RFS 
automatically,
after its environment is initialized.
The environment only needs to be set up once and
.BR /usr/nserve/rfmaster
must exist before the environment is initialized.
Descriptions of 
.BR /usr/nserve/rfmaster 
are in
.BR rfmaster (5).
You must be the super-user to run this command.
.SH USAGE
.SS Subcommands
.HP
.B init
.IR "\ domain\ \ netspec" [\| address \|]  	
.br
.I domain 
is the name of the
.SM RFS
domain.
.I netspec 
is the name of a device file in the
.B /dev 
directory which represents the 
streams-based transport provider on which
.SM RFS
will run.
Currently,
.B tcp
is the only accepted value for this field.
.I address
is the optional
.B tcp
port number on which the listener will listen.
If unspecified, it defaults to
.BR 0x1450 .
This subcommand only needs to be run once to
initialize the environment.
You do not need to rerun
.B dorfs
with the
.B init  
argument, unless you want to change
.IR  netspec .
.BR /usr/nserve/rfmaster 
must exists before you run
this command to initialize the environment.
To reinitialize the environment, you need to remove 
.BR /usr/nserve/\fIdomain ,
.BR /usr/nserve/\fInetspec ,
.BI /var/net/nls/ netspec / address
and 
.BI /var/net/nls/ netspec /dbf
beforehand.
.HP 
.B start
[
.B \-v
]
.br
Start
.SM RFS
automatically.
.\"If the 
.\".I netspec 
.\"is 
.\".BR tcp , 
.\"it starts 
.\".BR listener ,
.\".BR in.named , 
.\".B rfudaemon 
.\"and 
.\".BR rfstart . 
It also automatically 
advertises resources that are stored in 
.B /etc/rstab 
and mounts 
.SM RFS 
resources that are stored in 
.BR /etc/fstab . 
.RS
.RS
.TP
.B \-v
Verify clients on mounts (see
.RB ` "rfstart \-v" ').
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B stop	
Takes down 
.SM RFS 
by forced unmounting of all advertised resources, umounting 
all remotely mounted resources, executing 
.BR rfstop ,
and stopping
.BR listener .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /etc/advtab
.TP
.B /etc/rstab
.TP
.B /var/net/nls/tcp/addr
.TP
.B /var/net/nls/tcp/dbf
.TP
.B /usr/nserve/domain
.TP
.B /usr/nserve/netspec
.TP
.B /usr/nserve/rfmaster
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rfmaster (5),
.BR dname (8),
.BR fumount (8),
.BR mount (8),
.BR nlsadmin (8),
.BR rfstart (8),
.BR rfstop (8)
