.\" @(#)dump.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH DUMP 8 "7 October 1990"
.SH NAME
dump, rdump \- incremental file system dump
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/dump
[
.I options
[
.I arguments
] ]
.I filesystem
.br
.B /usr/etc/dump
[
.I options
[
.I arguments
] ]
.I filename
\&.\|.\|.
.sp .5
.B /usr/etc/rdump
[
.I options
[
.I arguments
] ]
.I filesystem
.br
.B /usr/etc/rdump
[
.I options
[
.I arguments
] ]
.I filename
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "dump command"  ""  "\fLdump\fP \(em dump file system"
.IX  "file system dump"  ""  "file system dump \(em \fLdump\fP"
.IX  "incremental file system dump"  ""  "incremental file system dump \(em \fLdump\fP"
.IX  "backup dumps"  ""  "backup dumps \(em \fLdump\fP"
.LP
.B dump
backs up all files in
.IR filesystem ,
or files changed after a certain date,
or a specified set of files and directories,
to magnetic tape, diskettes, or files.
.I options
is a string that specifies
.B dump
options, as shown below.
Any
.I arguments
supplied for specific options are given as subsequent words on
the command line, in the same order as that of the
.I options
listed.
.LP
If
.B dump
is called as
.B rdump,
the dump device defaults to
.BR dumphost:/dev/rmt8\fR .
.LP
If no
.I options
are given, the default is
.BR 9u .
.LP
.B dump
is normally used to back up a complete filesystem.  To restrict the dump
to a specified set of files and directories on one filesystem, list
their names on the command line.  In this mode the dump level is
set to
.B 0
and the
.B u
option is ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B  0\-9
The \*(lqdump level.\*(rq
All files in the
.I filesystem
that have been modified since the last
.B dump
at a lower dump level are copied to the volume.
For instance, if you did a 
\*(lqlevel \fB2\fP\*(rq
dump on Monday, followed by a 
\*(lqlevel \fB4\fP\*(rq
dump on Tuesday, a subsequent
\*(lqlevel \fB3\fP\*(rq
dump on Wednesday would contain
all files modified or added
since the \*(lqlevel \fB2\fP\*(rq
(Monday) backup.
A \*(lqlevel \fB0\fP\*(rq
dump copies the entire filesystem to the dump volume.
.TP
.BI a " archive-file"
Create a dump table-of-contents archive in the specified file,
.IR archive-file .
This file can be used by 
.BR restore (8)
to determine whether a file is present on a dump tape,
and if so, on which volume it resides.
For further information on the use of a dump archive file, see
.BR restore (8).
.IX "tape block size \(em 512 bytes"
.IX "block size for tape \(em 512 bytes"
.TP
.BI b " factor"
Blocking factor.
Specify the blocking factor for tape writes.
The default is 20 blocks per write.
Note: the blocking factor is
specified in terms of 512 bytes blocks, for compatibility with
.BR tar (1).
The default blocking factor for tapes of
density 6250 \s-1BPI\s0 and greater
is 64.
The default blocking factor for cartridge tapes
.RB ( c
option specified) is 126.
The highest blocking
factor available with most tape drives is 126.
.TP
.B c
Cartridge.
Use a cartridge instead of the standard half-inch reel.
This sets the density to 1000 \s-1BPI\s0,
the blocking factor to 126, and the length to 425 feet.
This option also sets the \*(lqinter-record gap\*(rq
to the appropriate length.
When cartridge tapes are used, and this option is 
.I not
specified,
.B dump
will slightly miscompute the size of the tape.
If the
.BR b ,
.BR d ,
.BR s
or
.B t
options are specified with this option,
their values will override the defaults set by this
option.
.TP
.BI d " bpi"
Tape density.
The density of the tape, expressed in
.SM BPI\s0,
is taken from
.I bpi.
This is used to keep a running tab on
the amount of tape used per reel.
Default densities are:
.RS
.RS
.TP 25
1/2" tape
.PD 0
1600 \s-1BPI\s0
.TP
1/4" cartridge 
1000 \s-1BPI\s0
.TP
2.3-Gbyte 8mm tape
54,000 \s-1BPI\s0
.PD
.RE
.RE
.IP ""
Unless a higher density is specified explicitly,
.B dump
uses its default density \(em even if the tape drive is capable of
higher-density operation (for instance, 6250 \s-1BPI\s0).
Note: the density specified should correspond to the density of the
tape device being used, or
.B dump
will not be able to handle end-of-tape properly.
The 
.B d
option is not compatible with the 
.B D
option.
.TP
.B D
Diskette. Specify diskette as the dump media.
.TP
.BI f " dump-file"
Dump file.
Use
.I dump-file
as the file to dump to, instead of
.B /dev/rmt8.
If
.I dump-file
is specified as
.RB ` \- ',
dump to the standard output.
If the file name argument is of the form
.IR machine:device ,
dump to a
remote machine.
Since
.B dump
is normally run by
.I root,
the name of the local machine must appear in the
.B .rhosts
file of the remote machine.
If the file name argument is of the form
.IB user @ machine : device\fR,
.B dump
will attempt to execute as the specified user on the remote machine.
The specified user must have a
.B .rhosts
file on the remote machine that allows root from the local machine.
If
.B dump
is called as
.B rdump,
the dump device defaults to
.BR dumphost:/dev/rmt8\fR .
To direct the output to a desired remote machine,
set up an alias for
\fBdumphost\fR in the file
.BR /etc/hosts .
.TP
.B n
Notify.
When this option is specified, if
.B dump
requires attention, it sends a terminal message
(similar to
.BR wall (1))
to all operators in the \*(lqoperator\*(rq group.
.TP
.BI s " size"
Specify the
.I size
of the volume being dumped to. When the specified size is reached,
.B dump
waits for you to change the volume.
.B dump
interprets the specified size as the length in
feet for tapes, and cartridges and 
as the number of 1024 byte blocks for diskettes.
The following are
defaults:
.RS
.RS
.TP 25
1/2" tape
.PD 0
2300 feet
.TP
60-Mbyte 1/4" cartridge 
425 feet
.TP
150-Mbyte 1/4" cartridge 
700 feet
.TP
2.3-Gbyte 8mm
6000 feet
.TP
diskette
1422 blocks (Corresponds
to a 1.44-Mbyte diskette, with one cylinder reserved for bad block information.)
.PD
.RE
.RE
.TP
.BI t " tracks"
Specify the number of tracks for a cartridge tape.
The 
.B t
option is not compatible with the 
.B D
option.
The following are
defaults:
.RS
.RS
.TP 40
60-Mbyte 1/4" cartridge (Sun2 only)
.PD 0
4 tracks
.TP
60-Mbyte 1/4" cartridge (all other platforms)
9 tracks
.TP
150-Mbyte 1/4" cartridge 
18 tracks
.PD
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B u
Update the dump record.
Add an entry to the file
.B /etc/dumpdates,
for each filesystem successfully dumped that includes the filesystem
name, date, and dump level.
This file can be edited by the super-user.
.TP
.B v
After writing each volume of the dump,
the media is rewound and is verified against the filesystem being dumped.
If any discrepancies are found,
dump will respond as if a write error had occurred;
the operator will be asked to mount new media,
and dump will attempt to rewrite the volume.
Note that 
.I any
change to the filesystem, even the update of the access time
on a file will cause the verification to fail.
Thus, the verify option can only be used on a quiescent filesystem.
.TP
.B w
List the filesystems that need backing up.
This
information is gleaned from the files
.B /etc/dumpdates
and
.BR /etc/fstab .
When the
.B w
option is used, all other options
are ignored.
After reporting,
.B dump
exits immediately.
.TP
.B W
Like
.BR w ,
but includes all filesystems that appear in
.B /etc/dumpdates,
along with information about their most recent dump dates and levels.
Filesystems that need backing up are highlighted.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/rmt8
default unit to dump to
.TP
.B dumphost:/dev/rmt8
default remote unit to dump to if called as
.B rdump
.TP
.B /dev/rst*
Sun386i cartridge tape dump device
.TP
.B /dev/rfd0a
Sun386i 1.44 megabyte 3.5-inch high density diskette drive dump device
.TP
.B /dev/rfdl0a
Sun386i 720 kilobyte 3.5-inch low density diskette drive dump device
.TP
.B /dev/rfd0c
Sun386i 1.44 megabyte 3.5-inch high density diskette drive dump device
.TP
.B /dev/rfdl0c
Sun386i 720 kilobyte 3.5-inch low density diskette drive dump device
.TP
.B /etc/dumpdates
dump date record
.TP
.B /etc/fstab
dump table: file systems and frequency
.TP
.B /etc/group
to find group
.I operator
.TP
.B /etc/hosts
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bar (1),
.BR fdformat (1),
.BR tar (1),
.BR wall (1),
.BR dump (5),
.BR fstab (5),
.BR restore (8),
.BR shutdown (8)
.br
.ne 8
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
While running,
.B dump
emits many verbose messages.
.SS Exit Codes
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
Normal exit.
.TP
.B 1
Startup errors encountered.
.TP
.B 3
Abort \- no checkpoint attempted.
.PD
.SH BUGS
.LP
Fewer than 32 read errors on the file system are ignored.
.LP
Each reel requires a new process, so parent processes for
reels already written just hang around
until the entire tape is written.
.LP
It is recommended that incremental dumps also be performed with
the system running in single-user mode.
.LP
.B dump
does not support multi-file multi-volume tapes.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Here are some examples of arguments which produce satisfactory
results on a number of typical tape drives.
Note that individual options can be in any order;  however, the
position of each following argument depends on the relative
position of each option.
.LP
.PD 0
.RS
.TP 32
60-MByte cartridge (Sun2 only):
dump cdst 1000 425 4
.TP
60-MByte cartridge:
dump cdst 1000 425 9
.TP
150-MByte cartridge:
dump cdst 1000 700 18
.TP
1/2" tape:
dump dsb 1600 2300 126
.TP
2.3-GByte 8mm tape:
dump dsb 54000 6000 126
.RE
.PD
.LP
To make a full dump of a root filesystem on sd3, on a 150-MByte
cartridge tape st0, use:
.LP
.RS
dump 0cdstfu 1000 700 18 /dev/rst0 /dev/sd3a
.RE
.LP
To make and verify an incremental dump at level 5 of the usr
partition of sd3, on a 1/2" reel tape st1:
.LP
.RS
dump 5dsbfuv 1600 2300 126 /dev/rst1 /dev/sd3g
.RE
.LP
To make a full backup of the entire disk sd3, on a 2.3-GByte
8mm tape st2, use:
.LP
.RS
dump 0dsbfu 54000 6000 126 /dev/rst2 /dev/sd3c
.RE
.SH NOTES
.SS Operator Intervention
.LP
.B dump
requires operator intervention on these conditions:
end of volume, end of dump, volume write error, volume open error or
disk read error (if there are more than a threshold of 32).
In addition to alerting all operators implied by the
.B n
option,
.B dump
interacts with the operator on
.BR dump 's
control terminal at times when
.B dump
can no longer proceed, or if something is grossly wrong.
All
questions
.B dump
poses
.I must
be answered by typing
.B yes
or
.BR no ,
as appropriate.
.LP
Since backing up a disk can involve a lot of time and effort,
.B dump
checkpoints at the start of each volume.
If writing that volume fails for some reason,
.B dump
will, with operator permission, restart itself from the
checkpoint after a defective volume has been replaced.
.LP
.B dump
reports periodically, and in verbose fashion.
Each report
includes estimates of the percentage of the dump completed
and how long it will take to complete the dump.
The estimated time is given as
.IR hours : minutes .
.SS "Suggested Dump Schedule"
.LP
It is vital to perform full, \*(lqlevel \fB0\fP\*(rq,
dumps at regular intervals.
When performing a full dump, bring the machine down to
single-user mode using
.BR shutdown (8).
While preparing for a full dump, it is a good idea to clean the
tape drive and heads.
.LP
Incremental dumps allow for convenient backup and recovery on a more
frequent basis of active files, with a minimum of media and time.
However there are some tradeoffs.
First, the interval between backups
should be kept to a minimum (once a day at least).
To guard against
data loss as a result of a media failure (a rare, but possible
occurrence), it is a good idea to capture active files on (at least)
two sets of dump volumes.
Another consideration
is the desire to keep unnecessary
duplication of files to a minimum to save both operator time and media
storage.
A third consideration is the ease with which a particular
backed-up version of a file can be located and restored.
The following four-week schedule offers a reasonable tradeoff between
these goals.
.RS
.nf
.ta 12n 18n 24n 30n 36n 42n 48n
.I
	Sun 	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri
\fIWeek 1:\fB	Full	5	5	5	5	3
\fIWeek 2:\fB		5	5	5	5	3
\fIWeek 3:\fB		5	5	5	5	3
\fIWeek 4:\fB		5	5	5	5	3\fR
.fi
.RE
.DT
.LP
Although the Tuesday \(em Friday incrementals contain \*(lqextra
copies\*(rq
of files from Monday, this scheme assures that any file
modified during the week can be recovered from the previous
day's incremental dump.
.SS "Process Priority of dump"
.LP
.B dump
uses multiple processes to allow it to
read from the disk and write to the
media concurrently.
Due to the way it
synchronizes between these processes,
any attempt to run dump with a
.B nice
(process priority) of `\-5' or better will likely make
.B dump
run
.I slower
instead of faster.
