.\" @(#)edquota.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH EDQUOTA 8 "9 September 1987"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
edquota \- edit user quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/edquota
[
.B \-p
.I proto-user
]
.IR usernames .\|.\|.
.LP
.B /usr/etc/edquota
.B \-t
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  edit "user quotas \(em \fLedquota\fP"
.IX  "user quotas"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  "quotas"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  "file system"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.B edquota
is a quota editor.  One or more users may be specified on the command
line.  For each user a temporary file is created with an
.SM ASCII
representation of the current disk quotas for that user and an editor
is then invoked on the file.  The quotas may then be modified, new
quotas added, etc.  Upon leaving the editor,
.B edquota
reads the temporary file and modifies the binary quota files to reflect
the changes made.
.LP
The editor invoked is
.BR vi (1)
unless the
.SB EDITOR
environment variable specifies otherwise.
.LP
Only the super-user may edit quotas.  (In order for quotas to be
established on a file system, the root
directory of the file system must
contain a file, owned by root, called
.BR quotas .
See
.BR quotaon (8)
for details.)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p
Duplicate the quotas of the prototypical user
specified for each user specified.  This is the normal
mechanism used to initialize quotas for groups of users.
.TP
.B \-t
Edit the soft time limits for each file system.
If the time limits are zero, the default time limits in
.B <ufs/quota.h>
are used.
Time units of sec(onds), min(utes), hour(s), day(s), week(s), and month(s)
are understood.
Time limits are printed in the greatest possible time unit such that
the value is greater than or equal to one.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B quotas
quota file at the file system root
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
mounted file systems
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quota (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR repquota (8)
.SH BUGS
The format of the temporary file is inscrutable.
