.\" @(#)etherfind.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH ETHERFIND 8C "16 June 1989"
.SH NAME
etherfind \- find packets on Ethernet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B etherfind
[
.B \-d
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-p
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-t
] [
.B \-u
] [
.B \-v
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.B \-x
] [
.B \-c
.I count
] [
.B \-i
.I interface
] [
.B \-l
.I length
]
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.I expression
.SH AVAILABILITY
This program is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX etherfind "" "\fLetherfind\fR \(em find packets on the Ethernet"
.IX Ethernet "find packets \(em \fLetherfind\fR"
.LP
.B etherfind
prints out the information about packets on the ethernet that
match the boolean
.IR expression .
The short display, without the 
.B \-v
option, displays only the destination and src (with port numbers).
When an Internet packet is
fragmented into more than one ethernet packet, all fragments
except the first are marked with an asterisk.
With the
.B \-v
option, the display is much more verbose, giving a trace that is suitable
for analyzing many network problems.
You must be root to invoke
.BR etherfind .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Print the number of dropped packets.  Not necessarily reliable.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not convert host addresses and port numbers to names.
.TP
.B \-p
Normally, the selected interface is put
into promiscuous mode, so that
.B etherfind 
has access to
all packets on the ethernet.  However, when the
.B \-p
flag
is used, the interface will not go promiscuous.
.TP
.B \-r
.SM RPC
mode: treat each packet as an
.SM RPC
message, printing
the program and procedure numbers. Routing packets are also
more fully decoded using this option, and 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
and
.SM NFS
requests have their arguments printed.
.TP
.B \-t
Timestamps: precede each packet listing with a time value in seconds
and hundredths of seconds since the first packet.
.TP
.B \-u
Make the output line buffered.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode: print out some of the fields of
.SM TCP
and
.SM UDP
packets.
.TP
.B \-x
Dump the packet in hex, in addition to the line
printed for each packet by default.
Use the 
.B \-l
option to limit this printout.
.TP
.BI \-c " count"
Exit after receiving
.I count
packets.
This is sometimes useful for dumping a sample of ethernet
traffic to a file for later analysis.
.TP
.BI \-i " interface"
.B etherfind
listens on
.IR interface .
The program
.BR netstat (8C)
when invoked with the
.B \-i
flag lists all the interfaces
that a machine has.
.TP
.BI \-l " length"
Use with the 
.B \-x 
option to limit the number of bytes printed out.
.TP
.I expression
.RS
The syntax of
.I expression
is similar to that used by
.BR find (1).
Here are the allowable primaries.
.TP
.BI dst  " destination"
True if the destination field of the packet is
.IR destination ,
which may be either an address or a name.
.TP
.BI src  " source"
True if the source field of the packet is
.IR source ,
which may be either an address or a name.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.BI host  " name"
True if either the source or the destination of the packet is
.IR name .
.TP
.BI between  " host1 host2"
True if either the source of the packet is
.I host1
and the destination
.IR host2 ,
or the source is
.I host2
and the destination
.IR host1 .
.TP
.BI dstnet  " destination"
True if the destination field of the packet has a network
part of
.IR destination ,
which may be either an address or a name.
.TP
.BI srcnet " source"
True if the source field of the packet has a network
part of
.IR source ,
which may be either an address or a name.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.BI srcport " port"
True if the packet has a source port value of
.IR port .
This will check the source port value of either
.SM UDP
or
.SM TCP
packets
(see
.BR tcp (4P)),
and
.BR udp (4P)).
The
.I port
can be a number or a name used in
.BR /etc/services .
.TP
.BI dstport " port"
True if the packet has a destination port value of
.IR port .
The
.I port
can be a number or a name.
.TP
.BI less " length"
True if the packet has a length less than or equal to
.IR length .
.TP
.BI greater " length"
True if the packet has a length greater than or equal to
.IR length .
.TP
.BI \-proto " protocol"
True if the packet is an
.SM IP
packet (see
.BR ip (4P))
of protocol type
.IR protocol .
.I Protocol
can be a number or one of the
names
.BR icmp ,
.BR udp ,
.BR nd ,
or
.BR tcp .
.TP
.BI byte " byte op value"
True if byte number
.I byte
of the packet is in relation
.I op
to
.IR value .
Legal values for
.I op
are
.BR \+ ,
.BR \< ,
.BR \> ,
.BR & ,
and
.BR | .
Thus
.B 4=6
is true if the fourth byte of the
packet has the value 6, and
.B 20&0xf
is true if byte twenty
has one of its four low order bits nonzero.
.TP
.B broadcast
True if the packet is a broadcast packet.
.TP
.B arp
True if the packet is an
.SM ARP
packet (see
.BR arp (4P)).
.TP
.B rarp
True if the packet is a rarp packet.
.TP
.B \-ip
True if the packet is an
.SM IP
packet.
.TP
.B \-decnet
True if the packet is a
.SM DECNET
packet.
.TP
.B \-apple
True if the packet is an AppleTalk protocol packet.
.RE
.LP
The primaries may be combined using the following operators
(in order of decreasing precedence):
.IP
A parenthesized group of primaries and operators
(parentheses are special to the Shell and must be escaped).
.IP
The negation of a primary
.RB (` not '
is the unary
.I not
operator).
.br
.ne 8
.IP
Concatenation of primaries (the
.I and
operation is implied by the juxtaposition of two primaries, or can
be specified with
.RB ` and ').
.IP
Alternation of primaries
.RB (` or "' is the"
.I or
operator).
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
To find all packets arriving at or departing from the host
.BR sundown ,
or that are
.SM ICMP
packets:
.RS
.sp .5
.ft B
.nf
example%  etherfind host sundown or proto icmp
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
.ft R
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR find (1),
.BR traffic (1C),
.BR arp (4P),
.BR ip (4P),
.BR nit (4P)
.BR tcp (4P),
.BR udp (4P),
.BR netstat (8C)
.SH BUGS
.LP
The syntax is painful.
.\" Yup.
.\" But not so bad now that I removed the dashes in 4.1  - WIN
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
