.\" @(#)extract_files.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI 
.TH EXTRACT_FILES 8 "7 October 1990"
.SH NAME
extract_files, list_files \- extract/list files from a release media
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/install/extract_files
.I devname
.I category
[
.BI \-a " arch"
]
[
.BI \-r " release"
]
[
.BI \-f " file \|.\|.\|."
]
.LP
.B /usr/etc/install/list_files
.I devname 
.I category
[
.BI \-a " arch"
]
[
.BI \-r " release"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Given the name of a 
.IR category ,
and optionally, a file (or a list of files) and/or a kernel architecture type,
.B extract_files
extracts all files contained in 
.I category
from 
.IR devname ,
or optionally extracts selected file(s) from 
.I files
in 
.I category
from 
.IR devname .
Note: 
.B extract_files
does not pre-compute the disk size that needs to hold the
extracted data.
.LP
.B list_files
performs the same function as
.B extract_files
except that files are not extracted, instead, they are listed
as contents of a given
.IR category .
.LP
The
.B \-a
and
.B \-r
options are provided for
.SM CD
devices, which can contain multiple releases for multiple architecture types.
Users normally do not need to specify these values, they
default to the current running system.
.LP
.I devname
is the media name on which files are kept. 
Examples are
.BR st ,
.BR sr ,
.BR mt \|.\|.\|.
etc.
.LP
.I category
is a suninstall category name which can be found by running
.BR /usr/etc/install/toc_xlat .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI \-a " arch"
Specify the kernel architecture type such as
.BR sun4 ,
.BR sun4c ,
\&.\|.\|. etc.
Defaults to the current system's kernel architecture.
.TP
.BI \-r " release"
Specify a software release such as
.BR 4_1 ,
.BR 4_1_1 ,
\&.\|.\|.. etc.
Defaults to the current system's software release.
.TP
.BI \-f " file"
Specify a file or a list of file to extract.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following examples show some common uses of 
.B extract_files
and
.BR list_files.
.IP
.ft B
.nf
example# cd /usr
example# /usr/etc/install/extract_files st0 Text \-f ./bin/addbib ./bin/eqn
.fi
.LP
Extracts from tape device   
.B st0
the files
.B ./bin/addbib
and
.B ./bin/eqn
from the category
.BR Text .
.IP
.ft B
.nf
example# cd /usr
example# /usr/etc/install/extract_files st0 Text \-f ./bin/checkeq
.fi
.LP
Extracts from tape device
.B st0
the file
.B ./bin/checkeq
from the category 
.BR Text .
.IP
.ft B
.nf
example# /usr/etc/install/list_files sr0 Text \-a sun4c
.fi
.LP
Lists all files in category
.B Text 
of 
.B sun4c
kernel architecture type from
.SM CD
device 
.BR sr0 .
.IP
.ft B
.nf
example# /usr/etc/install/list_files sr0 TLI \-a sun4c \-r 4_1_1
.fi
.LP
Lists all files in category
.SB TLI
of
.B sun4c
kernel architecture type from
.SM CD
device
.BR sr0 ,
under the
.B 4_1_1
software release.
.LP
.SH BUGS
.B extract_files
and
.B list_files
do not support floppy disc device.
