.\" @(#)fpa_download.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from _source_
.TH FPA_DOWNLOAD 8 "31 January 1990"
.SH NAME
fpa_download \- download to the Floating Point Accelerator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fpa_download
[
.B \-d
]
[
.B \-r
]
[
.B \-v
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.B \-u
.I ufile
]
[
.B \-m
.I mfile
]
[
.B \-c
.I cfile
]
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
.B fpa_download
applies to Sun-3 and Sun-3x systems
equipped with either an
.SM FPA
or
.SM FPA\s0+.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "FPA+" "" "FPA+ \(em download to the FPA"
.LP
.B fpa_download
writes microcode, map, and constants files to
.SM FPA
and
.SM FPA\s0+
boards.
.SM FPA
requires a map file;
.SM FPA\s0+
does not.
.LP
Root execution level is required to download (d,u,m and c options).
.B fpa_download
is called from
.B /etc/rc.local
when
.B /dev/fpa
exists.
.LP
Given no arguments,
.B fpa_download
prints whether an
.SM FPA\s0,
or
.SM FPA\s0+
is installed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-d
Download microcode, constants, and map files.
Enable default file names.
.TP
.B \-r
Print microcode and constant revision.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode.
.TP
.BI \-u " ufile"
Download microcode from
.I ufile.
.TP
.BI \-m " mfile"
Download map from
.I mfile
(\s-1FPA\s0 only).
.TP
.BI \-c " cfile"
Download constants from 
.I cfile.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /dev/fpa
device file for both
.SM FPA
and
.SM FPA\s0+.
.TP
.B /usr/etc/fpa/fpa_micro_bin
default microcode file
.RI ( ufile )
for
.SM FPA\s0.
.TP
.B /usr/etc/fpa/fpa_constants
default constants file (cfile) for
.SM FPA
.TP
.B /usr/etc/fpa/fpa_micro_map
default map file (mfile) for
.SM FPA
.TP
.B /usr/etc/fpa/fpa_micro_bin+
default microcode file (ufile) for
.SM FPA\s0+
.TP
.B /usr/etc/fpa/fpa_constants+
default constants file (cfile) for
.SM FPA\s0+
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fpa (4)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
The following diagnostics are printed when
.B fpa_download
encounters a serious error and asks the kernel to disable the
.SM FPA\s0.
This might occur if the microcode, map, or constants files
are corrupted, or if there is an
.SM FPA
or system hardware problem.
.TP
.B "\s-1FPA\s0 Download Failed - \s-1FPA\s0 ioctl failed"
An ioctl() on
.B /dev/fpa
failed, possibly due to a hung
.SM FPA
pipe.
.TP
.B "\s-1FPA\s0 Failed Download - \s-1FPA\s0 Bus Error"
Received a
.SM SIGFPE\s0.
.TP
.B "\s-1FPA\s0 Failed Download - Upload mismatch"
After each file is written to the
.SM FPA/FPA\s0+,
.B fpa_download
uploads the contents of
.SM FPA
memory and compares it
with the source.  They should always match.
