.\" @(#)fparel.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH FPAREL 8 "29 September 1987"
.SH NAME
fparel \- Sun FPA online reliability tests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fparel
.RB [ " \-p"\c
.IR n " ]"
.RB [ " \-v " ]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Not available on Sun386i systems.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX fparel "" "\fLfparel\fR \(em floating-point reliability tests"
.IX floating-point "reliability tests \(em \fLfparel\fR"
.LP
.B fparel
is a command to execute the Sun
.SM FPA
online confidence and
reliability test program.
.B fparel
tests about 90% of the functions of the
.SM FPA
board, and tests all
.SM FPA
contexts not in use by other processes.
.B fparel
runs without disturbing other processes that may be using the
.SM FPA\s0.
.B fparel
can only be run by the super-user.
.LP
After a successful pass,
.B fparel
writes
.IP
.B time, date: Sun
.SB FPA
.B
Passed.  The contexts tested are: 0, 1, ... 31
.LP
to the file
.BR /var/adm/diaglog .
.LP
If a pass fails,
.B fparel
writes
.IP
.B time, date: Sun
.SB FPA
.B failed
.LP
along with the test name and context number that failed,
to the file
.BR /var/adm/diaglog .
.B fparel
then broadcasts the message
.IP
.B time, date: Sun
.SB FPA
.B failed, disabled, service required
.LP
to all users of the system.  Next,
.B fparel
causes the kernel to disable the
.SM FPA\s0.
Once the
kernel disables the
.SM FPA\s0,
the system must be rebooted to make it
accessible.
.LP
The file
.B /etc/rc.local
should contain an entry to cause
.B fparel
to be invoked upon reboot to be sure that the
.SM FPA
remains
unaccessible in cases where rebooting doesn't correct the
problem.  See
.BR rc (8).
.LP
The 
.BR crontab (5)
file for root should contain an entry indicating that
.BR cron (8)
is to run
.B fparel
daily, such as:
.IP
.B 7 2 * * * /usr/etc/fpa/fparel
.LP
which causes
.B fparel
to run at seven minutes past two, every day.
See
.BR cron (8)
and
.BR crontab (5)
for details.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p\fP\fIn
Perform
.I n
passes.  Default is
\fIn\fP=1.
.B \-p0
means perform 2147483647 passes.
.TP
.B \-v
Run in verbose mode with detailed test
results to the standard output.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/adm/diaglog
Log of
.B fparel
diagnostics.
.TP
.B /etc/rc.local
.TP
.B /var/spool/cron/crontabs/root
.TP
.B /usr/etc/fpa/*
directory containing 
.SM FPA
microcode, data files, and loader
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR crontab (5),
.BR cron (8),
.BR fpaversion (8),
.BR rc (8)
