.\" @(#)fsck.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH FSCK 8 "18 June 1991"
.SH NAME
fsck \- file system consistency check and interactive repair
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/fsck
.B \-p
[
.B \-f
]
[
.B \-w
]
[
.B \-l
.I number
]
[
.IB filesystem \|.\|.\|.
]
.LP
.B /usr/etc/fsck
[
.B \-b
.I block#
]
[
.B \-w
]
[
.B \-y
]
[
.B \-n
]
[
.B \-c
]
[
.IB filesystem \|.\|.\|.
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "fsck command"  ""  "\fLfsck\fP \(em check and repair file system"
.IX  "check file system"  ""  "check file system \(em \fLfsck\fP"
.IX  "file system"  "check and repair"  ""  "check and repair \(em \fLfsck\fP"
.LP
.B fsck
is a program that checks and repairs file system consistency. It can
operate in two modes, \*(lqpreen\*(rq and interactive. 
\*(lqPreen\*(rq is a non-interactive mode which
only repairs a subset of file system inconsistencies.
The interactive mode allows users to audit and repair any inconsistencies.
.SS "\*(lqPreen\*(rq Mode"
.LP
With the 
.B \-p
option,
.B fsck
audits and automatically repairs (\*(lqpreens\*(rq)
inconsistencies on a set of file systems.
If a list of file systems is specified on
the command line,
.B fsck
sequentially checks each one; otherwise,
.B fsck
reads the table
.B /etc/fstab
to determine the file systems to check.
It then inspects disks in parallel,
taking advantage of I/O overlap
to check the file systems quickly.
The number of disks checked in parallel can be limited using the
.B \-l
option.  This helps systems that do not have sufficient memory to
run enough \fBfsck\fPs to check all disks in parallel.
Preen mode is normally used in the
.B /etc/rc
script during automatic reboot.  
.LP
Each file system's super block
.B clean flag
is examined and only 
those file systems not marked
.B clean
or
.B stable
are checked.
A message identifying the name of the device
and its file system's state is printed if the
clean flag indicates that checking is not
necessary.
If the 
.B \-f
(force) option 
is in effect,
.B fsck
checks the file system regardless
of the state of its clean flag.
.LP
Only partitions marked in
.B /etc/fstab
with a file system type of \*(lq4.2\*(rq and a non-zero pass number
are checked.
If the force option is in effect,
file systems with pass number 1 (typically 
.BR / ,
.BR /usr ,
and
.BR /usr/kvm )
are checked one at a time.
When pass 1 completes, all remaining file systems are checked,
running one process per disk drive.
If the force option is not
in effect (the default case),
all file systems with non-zero pass numbers
are checked in as parallel a manner as possible.
.LP
.B fsck
corrects innocuous inconsistencies such as: unreferenced inodes,
too-large link
counts in inodes, missing blocks in the free list, blocks appearing
in the free list and also in files, or incorrect counts in the super
block, automatically.
It displays a message
for each inconsistency corrected that
identifies the nature of, and file system on which, the correction
is to take place. 
After successfully correcting a file system,
.B fsck
sets the file system's super block
.B clean flag
to
.B stable,
prints the number of files on that file system,
the number of used and free blocks,
and the percentage of fragmentation.
.LP
If
.B fsck
encounters other inconsistencies that it cannot fix
automatically, it does not change the state of
the super block
.B clean flag
and exits with an abnormal return status (and the reboot
fails).
A list of file systems containing
such uncorrectable inconsistencies is printed
just before
.B fsck
exits.
.LP
If sent a
.SM QUIT
signal while preening the
file systems listed in
.BR /etc/fstab ,
.B fsck
finishes the file system checks, then exit with an abnormal
return status and the automatic reboot fails.
This is useful when you wish to finish the file system checks,
but do not want the machine to come up multiuser.
.SS "Interactive Mode"
.LP
Without the
.B \-p
option,
.B fsck
audits and interactively repairs inconsistent conditions on file systems.
File systems are checked regardless of the state of their
.BR "clean flag" .
In this case,
.B fsck
asks for confirmation before attempting
any corrections.
Inconsistencies other than those mentioned above
can often result in some loss of data.
The amount and severity of data
lost can be determined from the diagnostic output.
.LP
The default action for each correction is to wait for the operator to
respond either 
.B yes
or 
.BR no .
If the operator does not have write permission on the file system,
.B fsck
defaults to a 
.B \-n
(no corrections) action.
.LP
If no file systems are given to 
.B fsck
then a default list of file systems is read from
the file
.BR /etc/fstab .
.LP
Inconsistencies checked in order are as follows:
.RS
.TP 3n
\(bu
Blocks claimed by more than one inode or the free list.
.PD 0
.TP
\(bu
Blocks claimed by an inode or the free list outside the range of the file system.
.TP
\(bu
Incorrect link counts.
.TP
\(bu
Incorrect directory sizes.
.TP
\(bu
Bad inode format.
.TP
\(bu
Blocks not accounted for anywhere.
.TP
\(bu
Directory checks, file pointing to unallocated inode,
inode number out of range.
.TP
\(bu
Super Block checks:
more blocks for inodes than there are in the file system.
.TP
\(bu
Bad free block list format.
.TP
\(bu
Total free block and/or free inode count incorrect.
.TP
\(bu
Clean flag state.
.PD
.RE
.PP
Orphaned files and directories (allocated but unreferenced) are,
with the operator's concurrence, reconnected by
placing them in the 
.B lost+found
directory.
The name assigned is the inode number.  If the
.B lost+found
directory does not exist, it is created.
If there is insufficient space its size is increased.
.LP
A file system may be specified by giving the name of the cooked or raw device
on which it resides, or by giving the name of its mount point.  If the latter
is given,
.B fsck
finds the name of the device on which the file system resides by looking in
.BR /etc/fstab .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Use the block specified immediately after the flag as
the super block for the file system.
Block 32 is always an alternate super block.
.TP
.B \-f
Force checking of file systems regardless of the state
of their super block
.B "clean flag" .
.TP
.BI \-l " number"
Limits the \fInumber\fP of \fBfsck\fPs that are run concurrently in
preen mode.  (See \fB\-p\fP.)
.TP
.B \-w
Check writable file systems only.
.TP
.B \-y
Assume a
.B yes
response to all questions asked by 
.BR fsck ;
this should be used with extreme caution, as it is a free license
to continue, even after severe problems are encountered.
.TP
.B -n
Assume a
.B no
response to all questions asked by 
.BR fsck ;
do not open the file system for writing.
.TP
.B \-p
Audit and automatically repair
inconsistencies on
file systems whose state is either
.B active
or
.BR unknown .
If no other options are specified,
.B fsck
inspects file systems listed in
.B /etc/fstab
in parallel,
simultaneously checking
one file system per disk.
If file systems are specified on the command line,
inspection is sequential.
.TP
.B \-c
If the file system is in the old (static table) format,
convert it to the new (dynamic table) format.
If the file system is in the new format, convert it to
the old format provided the old format can support the
file system configuration.
In interactive mode,
.BR fsck
lists the direction the conversion is to be made
and asks whether the conversion should be done.
If a negative answer is given, no further operations are
done on the filesystem.
In preen mode, the direction of the conversion is listed
and done if possible without user interaction.
Conversion in preen mode is best used when all the file
systems are being converted at once.
The format of a file system can be
determined from the first line of output from
.BR dumpfs (8)
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/fstab
default list of file systems to check
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
list of mounted file systems
.PD
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP 
.B 0
Either no errors detected or all errors were corrected.
.TP 
.B 2
A
.SM QUIT
signal was caught while preening the
file systems listed in
.BR /etc/fstab ;
abort the reboot procedure.
.TP
.B 4
Errors on the root or a mounted file system were corrected.
The system must be rebooted.
.TP
.B 8
Some uncorrected errors exist on one or more of the file systems
checked, there was a syntax error, or some other operational
error occurred.
.TP
.B 12
An
.SM INTERRUPT
signal was caught during processing.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
The diagnostics produced by 
.B fsck
are fully enumerated and explained in the
.I "System and Network Administration Manual"
with the following additions.
.TP
1. 
After checking
a file system in non-preening mode, the question:
.sp 0.5
.nf
.na
    CLEAN FLAG IN SUPERBLOCK IS WRONG; FIX?
.ad
.fi
.sp 0.5
is asked if the file system's clean state is wrong.
A \*(lqyes\*(rq response instructs
.B fsck
to reset this state to
.B active
if there
are inconsistencies, or to 
.B stable
if there are no uncorrected inconsistencies.
A \*(lqno\*(rq response instructs
.B fsck
to leave the existing state unchanged.
.TP
2. 
When \fBfsck\fP is run in preen mode, the file systems that need additional
attention are normally scrolled off the screen.  With the enhanced version of
\fBfsck\fP these file systems listed as \fBfsck\fP exits.  This provides the
user with a list of the the file systems that require attention.  An example follows:
.sp 0.5
.nf
.na
        .
        .
        .
    /dev/rsd6a: UNEXPECTED INCONSISTENCY; RUN fsck MANUALLY.

    THE FOLLOWING FILE SYSTEMS HAD AN UNEXPECTED INCONSISTENCY:
        /dev/rsd6a (/sd6a), /dev/rsd6b (/sd6b)
        Reboot failed...help!
.ad
.fi
.sp
.SH "CAVEAT"
Because super block consistency checks are not made when
the -b option is used, it is recommended that -b be augumented
with the -n option to verify fsck actions.  Once you are satisfied
that the fsck actions are correct, then remove the -n.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fs (5),
.BR fstab (5),
.BR dumpfs (8),
.BR newfs (8),
.BR mkfs (8),
.BR panic (8S),
.BR reboot (8),
.BR rexecd (8C),
.BR ypserv (8)
.LP
.br
.I "System and Network Administration"
