.\" @(#)ftpd.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH FTPD 8C "18 December 1989"
.SH NAME
ftpd, in.ftpd \- TCP/IP Internet File Transfer Protocol server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/in.ftpd
[
.B \-dl
] [
.BI \-t timeout
]
.IB host .\fIsocket
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ftpd command"  ""  "\fLftpd\fP \(em file transfer protocol server"
.IX  "file transfer protocol" "server \(em \fLftpd\fP"
.IX  Internet "file transfer protocol server \(em \fLftpd\fP"
.IX  TCP/IP "Internet file transfer protocol server \(em \fLftpd\fP"
.IX  servers  ftpd  ""  "\fLftpd\fP \(em Internet File Transfer Protocol"
.LP
.B ftpd
is the
.SM TCP/IP
Internet File Transfer Protocol (\s-1FTP\s0)
server process.  The server is invoked by the Internet daemon
.BR inetd (8C)
each time a connection to the
.SM FTP
service (see
.BR services (5))
is made, with the connection available as descriptor 0 and the
host and socket the connection originated from (in hex
and decimal respectively) as argument.
.LP
Inactive connections are timed out after 60 seconds.
.LP
If the
.B \-d
option is specified,
debugging information is logged to the system log daemon,
.BR syslogd (8).
.LP
If the
.B \-l
option is specified, each
.SM FTP
session is logged to
.BR syslogd .
.LP
The FTP server
will timeout an inactive session after 15 minutes.
If the
.B \-t
option is specified,
the inactivity timeout period will be set to
.IR timeout .
.LP
The
.SM FTP
server currently supports the following
.SM FTP
requests;  case is not distinguished.
.LP
.TP 10
.B Request
.B Description
.TP
.SB ABOR
abort previous command
.TP
.SB ACCT
specify account (ignored)
.TP
.SB ALLO
allocate storage (vacuously)
.TP
.SB APPE
append to a file
.TP
.SB CDUP
change to parent of current working directory
.TP
.SB CWD
change working directory
.TP
.SB DELE
delete a file
.TP
.SB HELP
give help information
.TP
.SB LIST
give list files in a directory
(\fBls \-lg\fP)
.TP
.SB MKD
make a directory
.TP
.SB MODE
specify data transfer
.I mode
.TP
.SB NLST
give name list of files in directory
(\fBls\fP)
.TP
.SB NOOP
do nothing
.TP
.SB PASS
specify password
.TP
.SB PASV
prepare for server-to-server transfer
.TP
.SB PORT
specify data connection port
.TP
.SB PWD
print the current working directory
.TP
.SB QUIT
terminate session
.TP
.SB RETR
retrieve a file
.TP
.SB RMD
remove a directory
.TP
.SB RNFR
specify rename-from file name
.TP
.SB RNTO
specify rename-to file name
.TP
.SB STOR
store a file
.TP
.SB STOU
store a file with a unique name
.TP
.SB STRU
specify data transfer
.I structure
.TP
.SB TYPE
specify data transfer
.I type
.TP
.SB USER
specify user name
.TP
.SB XCUP
change to parent of current working directory
.TP
.SB XCWD
change working directory
.TP
.SB XMKD
make a directory
.TP
.SB XPWD
print the current working directory
.TP
.SB XRMD
remove a directory
.LP
The remaining
.SM FTP
requests specified in
.SM RFC
959 are recognized, but not implemented.
.LP
The
.SM FTP
server will abort an active file transfer only when the
.SB ABOR
command is preceded by a Telnet \*(lqInterrupt Process\*(rq (IP)
signal and a Telnet \*(lqSynch\*(rq signal in the command Telnet stream,
as described in
.SM RFC
959.
.LP
.B ftpd
interprets file names according to the \*(lqglobbing\*(rq
conventions used by
.BR csh (1).
This allows users to utilize the metacharacters
.RB ` "* ? [\s0] {\s0}\s+2~\s0" '.
.LP
.B ftpd
authenticates users according to three rules.
.TP
\(bu
The user name must be in the password data base,
.BR /etc/passwd ,
and not have a null password.  In this case a password
must be provided by the client before any file operations
may be performed.
.TP
\(bu
If the file
.B /etc/ftpusers
exists, the user name must not appear in that file.
.TP
\(bu
The user must have a standard shell returned by
.BR getusershell (3).
.TP
\(bu
If the user name is \*(lqanonymous\*(rq or \*(lqftp\*(rq, an
anonymous
.SM FTP
account must be present in the password
file (user \*(lqftp\*(rq).  In this case the user is allowed
to log in by specifying any password (by convention this
is given as the client host's name).
.LP
In the last case,
.B ftpd
takes special measures to restrict the client's access privileges.
The server performs a
.BR chroot (2)
command to the home directory of the \*(lqftp\*(rq user.
In order that system security is not breached, it is recommended
that the \*(lqftp\*(rq subtree be constructed with care;  the following
rules are recommended.
.TP 8
.B ~ftp
Make the home directory owned by \*(lqftp\*(rq and unwritable by anyone.
.TP 8
.B ~ftp/bin
Make this directory owned by the super-user and unwritable by
anyone.  The program
.BR ls (1V)
must be present to support the list commands.  This
program should have mode 111.
Since the default /bin/ls command is linked with a shared
library, so you need to set up the files for dynamic linking as well.
.TP 8
.B ~ftp/usr/lib/ld.so
the runtime loader must be present and executable.
.TP 8
.B ~ftp/dev/zero
used by the runtime loader, create this with the command
\*(lqmknod zero c 3 12\*(rq.
.TP 8
.B ~ftp/usr/lib/libc.so.*
should be a copy of the latest version of the shared C library.
.TP 8
.B ~ftp/etc
Make this directory owned by the super-user and unwritable by
anyone.  The files
.BR passwd (5)
and
.BR group (5)
must be present for the
.B ls
command to work properly.  These files should be mode 444.
.TP 8
.B ~ftp/pub
Make this directory mode 777 and owned by \*(lqftp\*(rq.  Users
should then place files which are to be accessible via the
anonymous account in this directory.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B ftpd
logs various errors to the system log daemon,
.BR syslogd ,
with a facility code of
.BR daemon .
The messages are listed here, grouped by severity level.
.SS Err Severity
.HP
.B "getpeername failed:"
.I reason
.br
A
.BR getpeername (2)
call failed.
.HP
.B "getsockname failed:"
.I reason
.br
A
.BR getsockname (2)
call failed.
.HP
.B "signal failed:"
.I reason
.br
A
.B signal (3V)
(see
.BR signal (3V))
call failed.
.HP
.B "setsockopt failed:"
.I reason
.br
A
.B setsockopt
call
(see
.BR getsockopt (2))
failed.
.HP
.B "ioctl failed:"
.I reason
.br
A
.BR ioctl (2)
call failed.
.TP
.IB directory : " reason"
.B ftpd
did not have write permission on the directory
.I directory
in which a file was to be created by the
.SB STOU
command.
.SS Info Severity
These messages are logged only if the
.B \-l
flag is specified.
.HP
.B "\s-1FTPD\s0: connection from"
.I host
.B at
.I time
.br
A connection was made to
.B ftpd
from the host
.I host
at the date and time
.IR time .
.HP
.B "\s-1FTPD\s0: User"
.I user
.B "timed out after"
.I timeout
.B "seconds at"
.I time
.br
The user
.I user
was logged out because they hadn't entered any commands after
.I timeout
seconds; the logout occurred at the date and time
.IR time .
.SS Debug Severity
These messages are logged only if the
.B \-d
flag is specified.
.HP
.B "\S-1FTPD\s0: command:"
.I command
.br
A command line containing
.I command
was read from the
.SM FTP
client.
.TP
.B "lost connection"
The
.SM FTP
client dropped the connection.
.TP
<\^\-\^\-\^\- \fIreplycode\fP
.PD 0
.TP
<\^\-\^\-\^\- \fIreplycode\-\fP
A reply was sent to the
.SM FTP
client with the reply code
.IR replycode .
The next message logged will include the message associated with the
reply.  If a
.B \-
follows the reply code, the reply is continued on later lines.
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR csh (1),
.BR ftp (1C),
.BR ls (1V),
.BR chroot (2)
.BR getpeername (2),
.BR getsockname (2),
.BR getsockopt (2),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR getusershell (3),
.BR ftpusers (5),
.BR group (5),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR services (5),
.BR inetd (8C),
.BR syslogd (8)
.LP
Postel, Jon, and Joyce Reynolds,
.I File Transfer Protocol (\s-1FTP\s0),
\s-1RFC\s0
959, Network Information Center,
.SM SRI
International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
October 1985.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The anonymous account is inherently dangerous
and should be avoided when possible.
.LP
The server must run as the super-user to create sockets with privileged
port numbers. 
It maintains an effective user
.SM ID
of the logged in user, reverting to the super-user only when
binding addresses to sockets.
The possible security holes have been extensively scrutinized, but are
possibly incomplete.
