.\" @(#)fumount.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH FUMOUNT 8 "30 June 1988"
.SH NAME
fumount \- force unmount of an advertised RFS resource
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fumount
[
.BI \-w " seconds"
]
.I resource
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I \s-1RFS\s0
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "fumount force" "" "\fLfumount\fP \(em force unmount of advertised resource" ""
.IX force "unmount of advertised resource"
.IX resource "force unmount of advertised resource"
.IX unmount "force unmount of advertised resource"
.IX RFS "force unmount of advertised RFS resource" "\s-1RFS\s0" "force unmount of an advertised RFS resource"
.LP
.B fumount
unadvertises
.I resource
and disconnects remote access to the resource.
.LP
When the forced unmount occurs, an administrative shell script,
.BR rfuadmin ,
is started on each remote system that has the resource mounted
If a grace period is specified (in seconds),
.BR rfuadmin (8)
is started with the
.B fuwarn
option.
When the actual forced unmount is ready to occur,
.BR rfuadmin (8)
is started with the
.B fumount
option.
See
.BR rfuadmin (8)
for information on the action taken in response
to the forced unmount.
.LP
This command is restricted to the super-user.
.LP
An error message will be sent to standard error
if any of the following are true of
.IR resource :
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
It does not physically reside on the local machine.
.TP
\(bu
It is an invalid resource name.
.TP
\(bu
It is not currently advertised and is not
remotely mounted.
.RE
.SH OPTION
.TP 12
.BI \-w " seconds"
Delay execution of the disconnect
.I seconds
seconds.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR adv (8),
.BR mount (8),
.BR rfuadmin (8),
.BR rfudaemon (8),
.BR unadv (8)
