.\" @(#)fuser.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH FUSER 8 "30 June 1988"
.SH NAME
fuser \- identify processes using a file or file structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/fuser
[
.B \-ku
]
.IR filename \||\| resource
[
.B \-
]
[\|[
.B \-ku
]
.IR filename \||\| resource 
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "fuser identify" "" "\fLfuser\fP \(em identify processes using file structure"
.IX identify "processes using file structure"
.IX report "processes using file structure"
.IX file "report processes using file"
.LP
.B fuser
outputs the process
.SM ID\s0s
of the processes that are using the
.IR filename s
or remote
.I resources
specified as arguments.
Each process
.SM ID
is followed by a letter code.
Possible code letters and an explanation of how
the process is using the file are given below:
.RS
.TP
.B c
its current directory
.TP
.B p
the parent of its current directory
(only when the file is being used by the system)
.TP
.B r
its root directory
.TP
.B v
process has 
.BR exec 'ed
or
.BR mmap 'ed
file
.RE
.LP
For block special devices with mounted file systems, all processes using
any file on that device are listed.
For remote resource names, all
processes using any file associated with that remote resource
are reported.
.B fuser
cannot use the mount point of
the remote resource to report all processes using any file associated
with that remote resource; it must use the resource name.
For all other types of files (text files, executables, directories,
devices, etc.) only the processes using that file are reported.
.LP
The process
.SM ID\s0s
are printed as a single line on the standard output,
separated by
.SM SPACE
characters and terminated with a single
.SM NEWLINE\s0.
All other output is written on standard error.
.LP
Any user with permission to read
.B /dev/kmem
and
.B /dev/mem
can use
.BR fuser .
.LP
Only the super-user can terminate another user's process
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
If more than one group of files are specified, the
options may be respecified for each additional group of files.
.TP
.B \-
Cancel the options currently in force.
The new set of options applies to the next group
of files.
.TP
.B \-k
Send
.SM SIGKILL
signal to each process.
Since this option spawns kills for each process,
the kill messages may not show up immediately
(see
.BR kill (2V)).
.TP
.B \-u
User login name, in parentheses, also follows the process
.SM ID\s0.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /vmunix
system namelist
.TP
.B /dev/kmem
system image
.TP
.B /dev/mem
system image
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ps (1),
.BR kill (2V),
.BR signal (3V),
.BR mount (8)
