.\" @(#)fwtmp.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2
.TH FWTMP 8 "17 January 1990"
.SH NAME
fwtmp, wtmpfix \- manipulate connect accounting records
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/acct/fwtmp
[
.B \-ci
]
.LP
.B /usr/lib/acct/wtmpfix
[
.IR filename \|.\|.\|.
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "fwtmp" "" "\fLfwtmp\fP \(em convert connect accounting records to ASCII" ""
.IX "wtmpfix" "" "\fLwtmpfix\fP \(em correct connect accounting records date/time stamp" ""
.SS fwtmp
.LP
.B fwtmp
reads from the standard input and
writes to the standard output,
converting binary records of the type found in
.B wtmp
to formatted
.SM ASCII
records.
The
.SM ASCII
version is useful to enable editing bad records,
using a text editor,
or general purpose maintenance of the file.
.SS wtmpfix
.LP
.B wtmpfix
examines the standard input or named files in
.B wtmp
format, corrects the time/date stamps to make the
entries consistent, and writes to the standard output.
A
.RB ` \- '
can be used in place of
.I filename
to indicate the standard input.
If time/date corrections are not performed,
.B acctcon1
fails when it encounters certain date-change records.
.LP
Each time the date is set,
a pair of date change records are written to
.BR /var/adm/wtmp .
The first record is the old date denoted
by the string
.RB ` | '
placed in the line field of the 
.B <utmp.h>
structure.
The second record specifies the new date and is
denoted by the string
.RB ` { '
placed in the line field.
.B wtmpfix
uses these records to synchronize all time stamps in the file.
.LP
In addition to correcting time/date stamps,
.B wtmpfix
checks the validity of the name field to ensure that it consists
solely of alphanumeric characters or
.SM SPACE
characters.
If it encounters a name that is considered invalid,
it changes the login name to
.SB INVALID
and writes a diagnostic message to the standard error.
In this way,
.B wtmpfix
reduces the chance that
.B acctcon1
will fail when processing connect accounting records.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS fwtmp
.TP
.B \-c
Write output in binary form.
.TP
.B \-i
Input is in
.SM ASCII
form.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/adm/wtmp
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acctcom (1),
.BR acct (2V),
.BR acct (5),
.BR utmp (5V),
.BR acct (8),
.BR acctcms (8),
.BR acctcon (8),
.BR acctmerg (8),
.BR acctprc (8),
.BR acctsh (8),
.BR runacct (8)
