.\" @(#)getty.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH GETTY 8 "18 February 1988"
.SH NAME
getty  \- set terminal mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/getty
[
.I type
[
.I tty
] ]
.SH Sun386i SYSTEM SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/getty
[
.B \-n
]
[
.I type
[
.I tty
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "getty command"  ""  "\fLgetty\fP \(em set terminal mode"
.LP
.BR getty ,
which is invoked by
.BR init (8),
opens and initializes a tty line, reads a login name, and invokes
.BR login (1).
.LP
The
.I tty
argument is the name of the character-special file in
.B /dev
that corresponds to the terminal.  If there is no
.I tty
argument, or the argument is
.RB ` \- ',
the tty line is assumed to be opened as file descriptor 
.BR 0 .
.LP
The
.I type
argument, if supplied, is used as an index into the
.BR gettytab (5)
database\(em\&to determine the characteristics of the line.
If this argument is absent, or if there is no such entry, the
default entry is used.  If there is no
.BR /etc/gettytab
file, a set of system-supplied defaults is used.
.LP
When the indicated entry is located,
.B getty
clears the terminal screen, prints a banner heading, and prompts for a
login name.  Usually, either the banner or the login prompt includes
the system's hostname.
.LP
Next,
.BR getty
prompts for a login and reads the login name, one character at a time.
When it receives a
null
character (which is assumed to be the result pressing the
.SM BREAK\s0 ,
or \*(lqinterrupt\*(rq key),
.B getty
switches to the entry
.B gettytab
entry named in the
.B nx
field.  It reinitializes the line to the new characteristics, and
then prompts for a login once again.
This mechanism typically is used to cycle through a set of line
speeds (baud rates) for each terminal line.  For instance, a rotary
dialup might have entries for the speeds: 300, 1200, 150, and 110
baud, with each
.B nx
field pointing to the next one in succession.
.LP
The user terminates login input line with a
.SM NEWLINE
or
.SM RETURN
character.  The latter is preferable; it sets up the proper
treatment of 
.SM RETURN 
characters (see
.BR tty (4)).
.B getty
checks to see if the terminal has only upper-case alphabetical
characters.  If all alphabetical characters in the login name are in
upper case, the system maps them along with all subsequent upper-case
input characters to lower-case internally; they are displayed in upper
case for the benefit of the terminal.  To force recognition
of an upper-case character, the shell allows them to be quoted
(typically by preceding each with a backslash,
.RB ` \e ').
.LP
Finally,
.B getty
calls
.BR login (1)
with the login name as an argument.
.LP
.B getty
can be set to time out after a certain interval; this hangs up dial-up
lines if the login name is not entered in time.
.SH Sun386i SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
For Sun386i system, the value of
.I type
is the constant
.BR Sun ,
for the console frame buffer.
.SH Sun386i SYSTEM OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-n
invoke the full screen login program
.BR logintool (8),
and optionally the \*(lqNew User Accounts\*(rq feature.
May only be used on a frame buffer.
Unless removed from the console entry in
.IR /etc/ttytab ,
this option is in effect by default.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/gettytab
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR login (1),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR tty (4),
.BR fbtab (5),
.BR gettytab (5),
.BR svdtab (5),
.BR ttytab (5),
.BR init (8),
.BR logintool (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.IB ttyxx ": No such device or address."
.TP
.IB ttyxx ": No such file or directory."
A terminal which is turned on in the
.B ttys
file cannot be opened,
likely because the requisite lines are either not configured into the
system, the associated device was not attached during boot-time system
configuration, or the special file in
.B /dev
does not exist.
