.\" @(#)gpconfig.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH GPCONFIG 8 "3 July 1990"
.SH NAME
gpconfig \- initialize the VME Graphics Processor or SBus GS graphics accelerator
.SH SYOPNSIS
.B /usr/etc/gpconfig
[
.BI \-u " ucode-filename"
]
.I gpunit
[
[
.B \-b
]
[
.B \-f
]
[
.B \-F
]
.IR fbunit .\|.\|.
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX gpconfig "" "\fLgpconfig\fR \(em bind \fLcgtwo\fR frame buffer to GP"
.IX gpconfig "" "\fLgpconfig\fR \(em bind \fLcgnine\fR frame buffer to GP"
.IX gpconfig "" "\fLgpconfig\fR \(em initialize \fLcgtwelve\fR accelerator/frame buffer"
.IX "GP, initialize graphics processor \(em \fLgpconfig\fR"
.IX "GS, initialize graphics accelerator \(em \fLgpconfig\fR"
.LP
.B gpconfig
binds a 
.SM VME
color frame buffer (either the
.BR cgtwo (4S)
or
.BR cgnine (4S))
to the
.SM VME 
.SM GP
(Graphics Processor),
then loads and starts the appropriate microcode in the
.SM GP\s0.
.LP
.B gpconfig 
also loads and starts the appropriate microcode in the SBus
.SM GS
.\" What does GS stand for?
.BR cgtwelve (4S)
integrated accelerator and frame buffer.
.LP
For example, the command line:
.LP
.IP
.B "/usr/etc/gpconfig gpone0  cgtwo0"
.LP
binds the 
.SM VME
.B cgtwo0
frame buffer board to the 
.SM VME
.B gpone0
Graphics Processor.
The device
.B /dev/gpone0a
then refers to the combination of
.B gpone
and
.BR cgtwo0 .
.LP
All 
.SM VME
frame buffer boards bound to a
.SM VME
.SM GP
device must be configured to the same width and height.
.LP
The standard version of the file
.B /etc/rc.local
contains the following
.B gpconfig
command line:
.IP
.B "/usr/etc/gpconfig \-f \-b"
.LP
For
.SM VME
systems, this binds
.B gpone0
and either
.B cgtwo0
or 
.B cgnine0
as
.BR gpone0a ,
causes
.B gpone0a
to use the specified frame buffer if it is present, redirects
.B /dev/fb
to be
.B /dev/gpone0a
and loads and starts the appropriate microcode.
.LP 
For SBus systems, this loads and starts the appropriate microcode.
.LP
If another configuration is desired, edit the command line in
.BR /etc/rc.local .
.LP
It is inadvisable to run the
.B gpconfig
command while the configured device is being used;
unpredictable results may occur.
If it is necessary to change
the frame buffer bindings to the
.SM GP
(or to stop using the
.SM GP
altogether),
bring the system down gently,
boot single user, edit the
.B gpconfig
line in the
.B /etc/rc.local
file, and bring the system back up multi-user.
.LP
.B gpconfig
tries to create the device special files under the
.B /dev
directory when they are absent.
.LP
For
.SM VME
systems, the default
.I gpunit
is
.BR /dev/gpone0 ,
and the default frame buffer is
.B /dev/cgtwo0
or
.BR /dev/cgnine0 ,
whichever is present.  The
appropriate microcode file will be loaded based on the version of the
.SM GP
in the system.  The
.BR cgnine (4S)
frame buffer can be bound only to the
.SM GP2
device.
.LP
For SBus systems, the default
.I fbunit
is
.BR /dev/cgtwelve0 .
There is no 
.IR gpunit .
A
.I gpunit
specification on the command line is ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Configure the
.SM GP
or
.SM GP+
to use the specified frame buffer, or to use the first frame buffer found,
if none is specified.
Only one
.SM GP
device, two
.SM GP+
devices, and four
.SM GP2 
devices may be bound to a frame buffer at a single time.
Note:  this option has no effect on the SBus 
.SM GS
.BR cgtwelve (4S)
device.
.TP
.B \-f
Redirect
.B /dev/fb
to the device formed by binding
.I gpunit
with
.IR fbunit .
Only the last
.B \-f
option in the command line takes effect.
Note:  this option has no effect on the SBus 
.SM GS
.BR cgtwelve (4S)
device.
.TP
.B \-F
Return the
.B /dev/fb
to the default device in effect before
.B gpconfig
was run.
.TP
.BI \-u " microcode-file"
Load the specified file as the alternate microcode
to the
.SM GP
or
.SM GS\s0.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /dev/fb
default frame buffer
.TP
.B /dev/cgtwelve0
SBus 24-bit frame buffer and graphics accelerator
.TP
.B /dev/cgtwo0
.SM VME
8-bit color frame buffer
.TP
.B /dev/cgnine0
.SM VME
24-bit color frame buffer
.TP
.B /dev/gpone0[abcd]
.SM VME
.SM GP
graphics accelerator
.TP
.B /usr/lib/gs.ucode
.SM GS
microcode file
.TP
.B /usr/lib/gp2.ucode
.SM GP\s02
microcode file
.TP
.B /usr/lib/gp1cg2.1024.ucode
.SM GP\s01
microcode file
.TP
.B /usr/lib/gp1cg2.1152.ucode
.SM GP\s01
microcode file
.TP
.B /etc/rc.local
local boot script
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cgnine (4S),
.BR cgtwelve (4S),
.BR cgtwo (4S),
.BR gpone (4S)
