.\" @(#)gtconfig.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH GTCONFIG 8 "2 July 1991"
.SH NAME
gtconfig \- initialize the GT Graphics Accelerator and download 
microcode.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/gtconfig
[
.BI \-d " device-filename"
]
[
.BI \-f " filename"
]
[
.BI \-s0 " filename"
]
[
.BI \-s1 " filename"
]
[
.BI \-I " microcode-directory"
]
[
.BI \-E " bit-code"
]
[
.BI \-g|G " gamma-value"
]
[
.BI \-degamma8|DEGAMMA8 " on|off"
[
.B \-i
]
[
.BI \-m|M " monitor-type"
]
[
.BI \-c " 1-14"
]
[
.BI \-w " 2-9"
]
[
.B \-v
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX gtconfig "" "\fLgtconfig\fR \(em initialize \fLgt\fR Graphics Accelerator"
.IX "GT, initialize graphics accelerator \(em \fLgtconfig\fR"
.LP
.B gtconfig
initializes the GT Graphics Accelerator and downloads 
microcode from the host. It is normally run as a part of 
.B /etc/rc.local 
to download \s-2GT\s+2 microcode files and to complete \s-2GT\s+2 
initialization.
.LP
The standard version of the file
.B /etc/rc.local
contains the following
.B gtconfig
command line:
.IP
.B "/usr/etc/gtconfig "
.LP
If another configuration is desired, edit the command line in
.BR /etc/rc.local .
.LP
It is inadvisable to run the
.B gtconfig
command while the configured device is being used;
unpredictable results may occur.
If it is necessary to change the \fBgtconfig\fR command,
bring the system down gently, boot single user, edit the
.B gtconfig
line in the
.B /etc/rc.local
file, and bring the system back up multi-user.
.LP
Filenames may be either relative or absolute pathnames. 
Relative pathnames are prepended with the path specified by \fB-I\fR, 
or the default path \fB/usr/lib\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d " device-filename"
Specifies the \s-2GT\s+2 special file. The default is \fB/dev/gt0\fR.
.TP
.BI \-f " filename"
Specifies the Front End microcode file. The default is \fBgt.ucode\fR.
.TP
.BI \-s0 " filename"
Specifies the Setup Processor 0 microcode file. The default is
\fBgt.c30.ucode\fR.
.TP
.BI \-s1 " filename"
Specifies the Setup Processor 1 microcode file. The default is
\fBgt.c31.ucode\fR.
.TP
.BI \-I " microcode-directory"
Specifies the directory containing microcode files. The default is
\fB/usr/lib\fR.
.TP
.BI \-E " bit-code"
Initializes the cursor enable plane to contain all zeros or all ones.  The default is 
\fB0\fR.
.TP
.BI \-g " gamma-value"
Specifies the gamma correction value. The default is 2.22.
.TP
.BI \-G " gamma-value"
Loads the gamma correction table only; does not initialize the GT or 
download microcode. 
.TP
.BI \-degamma8 " on|off"
Specifies automatic inverse gamma correction of 8-bit indexed color maps.  This allows colormaps with built-in gamma correction to work properly on GT.  The default is 
\fBon\fR.
.TP
.BI \-DEGAMMA8 " on|off"
Like degamma8, but only specifies automatic inverse gamma correction; does not otherwise initialize GT or download microcode.
.TP
.BI \-i 
Initialize the \s-2GT\s+2 backend. 
.TP
.BI \-m " monitor-type"
Specifies the monitor type of 1280_76, 1280_67, or stereo. The 
default is 1280_67. 
.TP
.BI \-M " monitor-type"
Sets the monitor type only; does not initialize the GT or 
download microcode. 
.TP
.BI \-c " 1-14"
Sets the OpenWindows server \s-2CLUT\s+2 quota. The default is 8.
.TP
.BI \-w " 2-9"
Sets the OpenWindows server \s-2WID\s+2 plane quota. The default is 5.
.TP
.BI \-v
Sets verbose mode. 
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
.BI /dev/gt0
GT Graphics Accelerator file
.TP
.B gt.ucode
GT Front End microcode file
.TP
.B gt.c30.ucode
Setup Processor 0  microcode file
.TP
.B gt.c31.ucode
Setup Processor 1 microcode file
.TP
.B /usr/lib 
directory that normally contains the microcode files
.TP
.B /etc/rc.local
local boot script
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gt (4S),
.BR fbio (4S),
.BR mmap (2),

