.\" @(#)hostconfig.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.\"
.TH HOSTCONFIG 8C "14 December 1990"
.SH NAME
hostconfig \- configure a system's host parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/hostconfig
.B \-p
.I protocol
[
.B \-d
]
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-n
]
[
.B \-i
.I interface
]
[
.B \-f
.I hostname
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The 
.B hostconfig
program uses a network protocol to acquire a machine's ``host parameters''
and then sets these parameters on the system.
The program selects which protocol to use based on the argument to the
required 
.B \-p
flag. 
Different protocols may set different host parameters.
Currently, two protocols are defined but only one protocol is supported.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-p bootparams
Use the ``whoami'' call of the Sun RPC ``bootparams'' protocol.
This sets the system's 
.IR hostname ,
.IR domainname ,
and
\fIdefault IP router\fR
parameters.
.TP
.B \-p bootp
Use the BOOTP protocol [not currently supported].
.TP
.B \-d
Enable ``debug'' output.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.B \-n
Run the network protocol, but do not set the acquired parameters into the 
system.
.TP
.BI \-i " interface"
Use only the named network interface to run the protocol.
.TP
.BI \-f " hostname"
Run the protocol as if this machine were named
.IR hostname .
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To configure a machine's host parameters using the ``bootparams whoami''
protocol, getting a verbose output:
.IP
.B hostconfig \-p bootparams \-v
.LP
To see what parameters would be set using the ``bootparams whoami''
protocol:
.IP
.B hostconfig \-p bootparams \-n \-v
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR  hostname (1),
.BR  domainname (1),
.BR bootparam (3R),
.BR  route (8C)
