.\" @(#)idload.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH IDLOAD 8 "30 June 1988"
.SH NAME
idload \- RFS user and group mapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B idload
[
.B \-n
] [
.B \-g
.I g_rules
] [
.B \-u
.I u_rules
] [
.I directory
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I \s-1RFS\s0
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "idload RFS" "" "\fLidload\fP \(em \s-1RFS\s0 user and group mapping" ""
.IX mapping "RFS user and group" "mapping" "\s-1RFS\s0 user and group"
.IX RFS "user and group mapping" "\s-1RFS\s0" "user and group mapping"
.IX "translation tables" "build with idload" "translation tables" "build with \fLidload\fP"
.IX "Remote File Sharing" "see RFS"
.LP
.B idload
is used on Remote File Sharing
(\s-1RFS\s0)
servers to build translation tables for user and group
.SM ID\s0s.
It takes your
.B /etc/passwd
and
.B /etc/group
files and produces translation tables for user and group 
.SM ID\s0s
from remote machines, according to the rules set down in the
.I u_rules
and
.I g_rules
files.
If you are mapping by user and group name, you will
need copies of remote
.B /etc/passwd
and
.B /etc/group
files.
If no rules files are specified, remote user and group
.SM ID\s0s
are mapped to
.SM MAXUID\s0+1.
This is an
.SM ID
number that is one higher than the highest number
you could assign on your system.
.LP
By default, the remote password and group files are assumed to
reside in
.BI /usr/nserve/auth.info/ domain / host /[passwd\||\|group].
The
.I directory
argument indicates that some directory structure other than
.B /usr/nserve/auth.info
contains the
.IB domain / host
.B passwd
and
.B group
files.
.I host
is the name of the host the files are from and
.I domain
is the domain where
.I host
can be found.
.LP
This command is restricted to the super-user.
.LP
This command is run automatically when the first remote mount
is done of a remote resource (see
.BR mount (8)).
.LP
If any of the following are true, an error message
will be sent to standard error. 
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
Neither rules files can be found or opened.
.TP
\(bu
There are syntax errors in the rules file.
.TP
\(bu
There are semantic errors in the rules file.
.TP
\(bu
Host information could not be found.
.TP
\(bu
The command is not run with super-user privileges.
.RE
.LP
Partial failures will display a
warning message, although the process will continue.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B \-n
Do not produce a translation table, however, send a
display of the
.SM ID
mapping to the standard out.
This is used to do a trial run of the mapping.
.TP
.BI \-u " u_rules""
The
.I u_rules
file contains the rules for user
.SM ID
translation.
The default rules file is
.BR /usr/nserve/auth.info/uid.rules .
.TP
.BI \-g " g_rules"
The
.I g_rules
file contains the rules for group
.SM ID
translation.
The default rules file is
.BR /usr/nserve/auth.info/gid.rules .
.SH USAGE
.SS Rules
.LP
The rules files have two types of sections, both optional:
.B global
and
.BR host .
There can be only one global
section, though there can be one host section for each host
you want to map.
.LP
The
.B global
section describes the default conditions for translation
for any machines that are not explicitly referenced in a
.B host
section.
If the global section is missing, the default action is to map all remote
user and group
.SM ID\s0s
from undefined hosts to
.SM MAXUID\s0+1.
The syntax of the first line of the
.B global
section is:
.IP
.B global
.br
.ne 5
.LP
A
.B host
section is used for each client machine or group
of machines that you want to map differently from the global definitions.
The syntax of the first line of each
.B host
section is:
.RS
.BI host name\fR[.\|.\|.\|]
.LP
where
.I name
is replaced by the full name(s) of a host
.RI ( domain.hostname ).
.RE
.LP
The format of a rules file is described below.
All lines are optional, but must appear in the order shown.
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
.ft B
global
default \fIlocal\fP | transparent
exclude
[\fIremote_id\fP\-\fIremote_id\fP] | [\fIremote_id\fP]
map [\fIremote_id\fP:\fIlocal\fP]
.sp
host \fIdomain\fP.\fIhostname\fP [\fIdomain\fP.\fIhostname\fP\|.\|.\|.\|]
default \fIlocal\fP | transparent
exclude [\fIremote_id\fP\-\fIremote_id\fP] | [\fIremote_id\fP] | [\fIremote_name\fP]
map [\fIremote\fP:\fIlocal\fP] | \fIremote\fP | all
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.br
.ne 5
Each of these instruction types is described below.
.LP
The line
.IP
.BI default " local " "| transparent" 
.LP
defines the mode of mapping for remote users that are not
specifically mapped in instructions in other lines.
.B transparent
means that all remote
user and group 
.SM ID\s0s
will have the same numeric value locally unless they
appear in the
.B exclude
instruction.
.I local
can be replaced by a local user name or
.SM ID
to map all users into a particular local name or
.SM ID
number.
If the default line is omitted, all users that are not specifically
mapped are mapped into a \*(lqspecial guest\*(rq login
.SM ID \s0.
.LP
The line
.IP
\fBexclude [\fIremote_id\fB\-\fIremote_id\fB] | [\fIremote_id\fB] | [\fIremote_name\fB]\fR
.LP
defines remote
.SM ID\s0s
that will be excluded from the
.B default
mapping.
The
.B exclude
instruction must precede any
.B map
instructions in a block.
You can use a range of
.SM ID
numbers, a single
.SM ID
number, or a single name.
.RI ( remote_name
cannot be used in a global block.)
.LP
The line
.IP
\fBmap [\fIremote\fB:\fIlocal\fB] | \fIremote\fB | all\fR
.LP
defines the local
.SM ID\s0s
and names that remote 
.SM ID\s0s
and names will be mapped into.
.I remote
is either a remote 
.SM ID
number or remote name;
.I local
is either a local 
.SM ID
number or local name.
Placing a colon between a
.I remote
and
a
.I local
will give the value on the left
the permissions of the value on the right.
A single
.I remote
name or
.SM ID
will assign the user or group permissions of the
same local name or
.SM ID\s0.
.B all
is a predefined alias for the set of all user and group
.SM ID\s0s
found in the local
.B /etc/passwd
and
.B /etc/group
files.
You cannot map by remote name in
.B global
blocks.
.LP
Note:
.B idload
will always output warning messages for
.RB ` "map all" ',
since password files always contain multiple administrative
user names with the same 
.SM ID
number.
The first mapping attempt on the
.SM ID
number will succeed, all subsequent attempts will fail.
.LP
.SM RFS
does not need to be running to use
.BR idload .
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.LP
On successful completion,
.B idload
will produce one or more
translation tables and return a successful exit status.
If
.B idload
fails, the command will return an unsuccessful exit
status without producing a translation table.
.br
.ne 7
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/passwd
.TP
.B /etc/group
.TP
.BI /usr/nserve/auth.info/ domain / host /[user\||\|group]
.TP
.B /usr/nserve/auth.info/vid.rules
.TP
.B /usr/nserve/auth.info/gid.rules
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mount (8)
