.\" @(#)ifconfig.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH IFCONFIG 8C "14 December 1990"
.SH NAME
ifconfig \- configure network interface parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/ifconfig
.I interface
[
.I address_family
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.I address
[
.I dest_address
] ]
[
.B netmask
.I mask
]
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +0.5i
[
.B broadcast
.I address
]
[
.B up
]
[
.B down
]
[
.B trailers
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.B \-trailers
]
[
.B arp
]
[
.B \-arp
]
[
.B private
]
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-private
]
[
.B metric
.I n
]
[
.B auto-revarp
]
.LP
.B /usr/etc/ifconfig
.I interface
[
.I protocol_family
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ifconfig command"  ""  "\fLifconfig\fP \(em configure network interface parameters"
.IX  "configure network interface parameters"  ""  "configure network interface parameters \(em \fLifconfig\fP"
.IX  "network interface parameters, configure \(em \fLifconfig\fP"
.LP
.B ifconfig
is used to assign an address
to a network interface and/or to configure
network interface parameters.
.B ifconfig
must be used at boot time to define the network address
of each interface present on a machine; it may also be used at
a later time to redefine an interface's address
or other operating parameters.
Used without options,
.B ifconfig
displays the current configuration for a network interface.
If a protocol family is specified,
.B ifconfig
will report only the details specific to that protocol family.
Only the super-user may modify the configuration
of a network interface.
.LP
The
.I interface
parameter is a string of the form
.IR "name\^unit" ,
for example
.B le0
or 
.BR ie1 .
Three special interface names,
.BR \-a ,
.B \-ad
and
.BR \-au ,
are reserved and refer to all or a subset
of the interfaces in the system.
If one of these interface names is given, the commands following it are applied
to all of the interfaces that match:
.TP 15
.B \-a
Apply the commands to all interfaces in the system.
.TP
.B \-ad
Apply the commands to all ``down'' interfaces in the system.
.TP
.B \-au
Apply the commands to all ``up'' interfaces in the system.
.LP
Since an interface may receive transmissions in differing protocols,
each of which may require separate naming schemes, the parameters and
addresses are interpreted according to
the rules of some address family,
specified by the
.I address_family
parameter.  The address families currently supported are
.BR ether " and " inet .
If no address family is specified,
.B inet
is assumed.
.LP
For the
.SM TCP/IP
family
.RB ( inet ),
the address is either a host name present in the host name data
base (see
.BR hosts (5))
or in the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
map
.BR hosts ,
or a
.SM TCP/IP
address expressed in the Internet standard
\*(lqdot notation\*(rq.
Typically, an Internet address specified in dot notation
will consist of your system's network number and the machine's
unique host number.
A typical Internet address is
.BR 192.9.200.44 ,
where
.B 192.9.200
is the network number and
.B 44
is the machine's
host number.
.LP
For the
.B ether
address family,
the address is an Ethernet address represented as
.IR x : x : x :\c
.IR x : x : x
where
.I x
is a hexadecimal number between 0 and ff.
Only the super-user may use the
.B ether
address family.
.LP
If the
.I dest_address
parameter is supplied in addition to the
.I address
parameter, it specifies the address of
the correspondent on the other end
of a point to point link.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B up
Mark an interface \*(lqup\*(rq.
This happens automatically when setting the
first address on an interface.
The
.B up
option
enables an interface after an
.BR "ifconfig down" ,
reinitializing the hardware.
.TP
.B down
Mark an interface \*(lqdown\*(rq.  When an interface is
marked \*(lqdown\*(rq, the system will not attempt to
transmit messages through that interface.
If possible, the interface will be reset to disable reception as well.
This action does not automatically disable routes using the interface.
.TP
.B trailers
This flag used to cause a non-standard encapsulation of inet packets
on certain link levels.
Sun drivers no longer use this flag, but it is ignored for compatibility.
.TP
.B \-trailers
Disable the use of a \*(lqtrailer\*(rq link level encapsulation.
.TP
.B  arp
Enable the use of the Address Resolution Protocol in mapping
between network level addresses and link level addresses (default).
This is currently implemented for mapping between
.SM TCP/IP
addresses and 10Mb/s Ethernet addresses.
.TP
.B \-arp
Disable the use of the Address Resolution Protocol.
.TP
.B private
Tells the
.B in.routed
routing daemon
(see
.BR routed (8C))
that the interface should not be advertised.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-private
Specify unadvertised interfaces.
.TP
.B auto-revarp
Use the Reverse Address Resolution Protocol (RARP) to automatically
acquire an address for this interface.  Available beginning
with SunOS 4.1.1 Rev B.
.TP
.BI  metric " n"
Set the routing metric of the interface to
.IR n ,
default 0.
The routing metric is used by the routing protocol
.RB ( routed (8C)).
Higher metrics have the effect of making a route
less favorable; metrics are counted as addition hops
to the destination network or host.
.TP
.BI netmask " mask"
(\fBinet\fR only)
Specify how much of the address to reserve for subdividing
networks into sub-networks.
The mask includes the network part of the local address
and the subnet part, which is taken from the host field of the address.
The mask can be specified as a single hexadecimal number
with a leading 0x, with a dot-notation address,
or with a pseudo-network name listed in the network table
.BR networks (5).
The mask contains 1's for the bit positions in the 32-bit address
which are to be used for the network and subnet parts,
and 0's for the host part.
The mask should contain at least the standard network portion,
and the subnet field should be contiguous with the network
portion.
If a
.RB ` + '
(plus sign) is given for the netmask value,
then the network number is looked up in the
.SM NIS
.B netmasks.byaddr
map
(or in the
.BR /etc/netmasks )
file if not running the 
.SM NIS
service.
.TP
.BI  broadcast " address"
.RB ( inet
only)
Specify the address to use to represent broadcasts to the
network.
The default broadcast address is the
address with a host part of all 0's.
A
.B +
(plus sign) given for the broadcast value causes the broadcast address to
be reset to a default appropriate for the (possibly new) address
and netmask.
Note that the arguments of
.B ifconfig
are interpreted left to right,
and therefore
.IP
.B ifconfig \-a netmask + broadcast +
.IP
and
.IP
.B ifconfig \-a broadcast + netmask +
.IP
may result in different values being assigned for the interfaces'
broadcast addresses.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
If your workstation is not attached to an Ethernet, the
.B ie0
interface should be marked \*(lqdown\*(rq as follows:
.IP
.B ifconfig ie0 down
.LP
To print out the addressing information for each interface, use
.IP
.B ifconfig \-a
.LP
To reset each interface's broadcast address after the netmasks
have been correctly set, use
.IP
.B ifconfig \-a broadcast +
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/nit
.TP
.B /etc/netmasks
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR intro (3),
.BR  ethers (3N),
.BR  arp (4P),
.BR  hosts (5),
.BR  netmasks (5),
.BR  networks (5)
.BR  netstat (8C),
.BR  rc (8),
.BR  routed (8C)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Messages indicating the specified interface does not exist, the
requested address is unknown, or the user is not privileged and
tried to alter an interface's configuration.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The network information service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
