.\" @(#)inetd.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH INETD 8C "17 November 1987"
.SH NAME
inetd \- Internet services daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/inetd
[
.B \-d
] [ 
.I configuration-file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "inetd command"  ""  "\fLinetd\fP \(em Internet server daemon"
.IX  servers  inetd  ""  "\fLinetd\fP \(em Internet server daemon"
.LP
.BR inetd ,
the Internet services daemon, is normally run at boot time by the
.BR /etc/rc.local
script.  When started
.B inetd
reads its configuration information from
.IR configuration-file ,
the default being
.BR /etc/inetd.conf .
See
.BR inetd.conf (5)
for more information on the format of this file.
It listens for connections on the Internet addresses of the
services that its configuration file specifies.
When a connection is found, it invokes the server daemon specified by
that configuration file for the service requested. 
Once a server is finished, 
.B inetd
continues to listen on the socket (except in some cases which
will be described below).
.LP
Depending on the value of the \*(lqwait-status\*(rq field
in the configuration line for the service,
.B inetd
will either wait for the server to complete before continuing
to listen on the socket, or immediately continue to listen on the socket.
If the server is a \*(lqsingle-threaded\*(rq datagram server (a
\*(lqwait-status\*(rq field of \*(lqwait\*(rq),
.B inetd
must wait.
That server will handle all datagrams on the socket.
All other servers (stream and \(multi-threaded\*(rq data-gram, a
\*(lqwait-status\*(rq field of \*(lqnowait\*(rq) operate on separate
sockets from the connection request socket, thus freeing the
listening socket for new connection requests.
.LP
Rather than having several daemon
processes with sparsely distributed requests each running concurrently,
.B inetd
reduces the load on the system by invoking Internet servers only as
they are needed.
.LP
.B inetd
itself provides a number of simple TCP-based services.
These include 
.BR echo ,
.BR discard ,
.BR chargen
(character generator),
.B daytime
(human readable time), and
.B time
(machine readable time, in the form of the number of seconds since
midnight, January 1, 1900).
For
details of these services, consult the appropriate RFC, as listed below,
from the Network Information Center.
.PP
.B inetd
rereads its configuration file whenever it receives a hangup signal,
.SM
.BR SIGHUP \s0.
New services can be activated, and existing services deleted or modified in
between whenever the file is reread.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR inetd.conf (5),
.BR comsat (8C),
.BR ftpd (8C),
.BR rexecd (8C),
.BR rlogind (8C),
.BR rshd (8C),
.BR telnetd (8C),
.BR tftpd (8C)
.LP
Postel, Jon,
.IR "Echo Protocol" ,
.SM RFC
862,
Network Information Center,
.SM SRI
International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
May 1983.
.LP
Postel, Jon, 
.IR "Discard Protocol" ,
.SM RFC
863,
Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
May 1983.
.LP
Postel, Jon, 
.IR "Character Generator Protocol" ,
.SM RFC
864,
Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
May 1983.
.LP
Postel, Jon,
.IR "Daytime Protocol" ,
.SM RFC
867,
Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
May 1983.
.LP
Postel, Jon, and Ken Harrenstien,
.IR "Time Protocol" ,
.SM RFC
868,
Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
May 1983.
