'\" t
.\" @(#)infocmp.8v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH INFOCMP 8V "26 February 1988"
.SH NAME
infocmp \- compare or print out terminfo descriptions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR infocmp
.RB [ " \-cdnILCruvV1 " ]
.RB [ " \-sd " ]
.RB [ " \-si " ]
.RB [ " \-sl " ]
.RB [ " \-sc " ]
.RB [ " \-w"
.IR width " ]"
.if n .ti 5n
.RB [ \-A
.IR directory " ]"
.RB [ \-B
.IR directory " ]"
.if t .ti +.5i
.RI [ " termname "
\&.\|.\|.\|]
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/infocmp
.I arguments
.LP
Note: 
.I arguments
to 
.B /usr/5bin/infocmp
are the same as those for 
.BR infocmp ,
above.
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "infocmp command" "" "\fLinfocmp\fP command"
.B infocmp
compares a binary
.BR terminfo (5V)
entry with other terminfo entries, rewrites a
.B terminfo
description to take advantage of the
.B use=
.IR field ,
or prints out a
.B terminfo
description from the corresponding binary file in a variety of formats.
It displays boolean fields first, then
numeric fields, then string fields.
.LP
It can also convert a
.B terminfo
entry to a
.BR termcap (5)
entry; the
.B \-C
flag causes
.B infocmp
to perform this conversion.
Some
.B termcap
variables are not supported by
.BR terminfo ,
but those that can be derived from
.I terminfo
variables are displayed.  Not all
.B terminfo
capabilities are translated either;
only those that are allowed in a
.B termcap
entry are normally displayed.
Specifying the
.B \-r
option eliminates this restriction, allowing all capabilities to be
displayed in
.B termcap
form.
.LP
Because padding is collected at the beginning of a capability,
not all capabilities are displayed.  Since
mandatory padding is not supported by
.B terminfo
and
.B termcap
strings are not as flexible, it is not always possible to convert a
.B terminfo
string capability into an equivalent working
.B termcap
capability.  Also, a subsequent conversion of the
.B termcap
file back into
.B terminfo
format will not necessarily reproduce the original source;
.B infocmp
attempts to convert parameterized strings, and
comments out those that it can not.
.LP
Some common
.B terminfo
parameter sequences, their
.B termcap
equivalents, and some
terminal types which commonly have such sequences, are:
.LP
.TS
center ;
lB lB lB .
Terminfo	Termcap	Representative Terminals
%p1%c	%.	adm
%p1%d	%d	hp, \s-1ANSI\s0 standard, vt100
%p1%'x'%+%c	%+x	concept
%i	%i	\s-1ANSI\s+1 standard, vt100
%p1%?%'x'%>%t%p1%'y'%+%;	%>xy	concept
%p2 is printed before %p1	%r	hp
.TE
.LP
If no
.I termname
arguments are given, the environment variable
.SB TERM
is used for all expected
.I termname
arguments.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS Default Options
If no options are specified and either zero or one
.I termname
is specified, the
.B \-I
option is assumed to be in effect.
If more than one
.I termname
is specified, the
.B \-d
option is assumed.
.SS Comparison Options
.B infocmp
compares the description of the first terminal
.I termname
with each of the descriptions for terminals listed in subsequent
.I termname
arguments.
If a capability is defined for only one of the terminals,
the value returned will depend on the type of the capability:
.B F
for boolean variables,
.B \-1
for integer variables,
and
.B \s-1NULL\s0
for string variables.
.TP
.B \-c
Produce a list of capabilities common to both entries.
Capabilities that are not set are ignored.
This option can be used as a quick check to see if the
.B \-u
option is worth using.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-d
Produce a list of capabilities that differ between descriptions.
.TP
.B \-n
Produce a list of capabilities in neither entry.
.SS Source Listing Options
The
.BR \-I ,
.BR \-L ,
and
.B \-C
options produce a source listing for each terminal named.
.TP
.B \-I
Use the
.B terminfo
names.
.TP
.B \-L
Use the long C variable name listed in
.BR <term.h> .
.TP
.B \-C
Display only those capabilities that have
.B termcap
equivalents, using the
.B termcap
names and displaying them in
.B termcap
form whenever possible.
.IP
The source produced by the
.B \-C
option may be used directly as a
.B termcap
entry, but not all of the
parameterized strings may be changed to the
.B termcap
format.
All padding information for strings is collected together and placed at
the beginning of the string where
.B termcap
expects it.
Mandatory padding (padding information with a trailing
.RB ` / ')
will become optional.
.TP
.B \-r
When using
.BR \-C ,
display all capabilities, not just those capabilities that have
.B termcap
equivalents.
.TP
.B \-u
Produce a
.B terminfo
source description for the first named terminal
which is relative to the descriptions given by the entries for all
terminals named subsequently on the command line, by
analyzing the differences between them, and
producing a description with
.B use=
fields for the other terminals.
In this manner, it is possible to retrofit generic terminfo entries into a
terminal's description.
Or, if two similar terminals exist, but were coded at different times or by
different people so that each description is a full description, using
.B infocmp
will show what can be done to change one description to be relative to the
other.
.IP
A capability is displayed with an at-sign
.RB ( @ )
if it no longer exists in
the first terminal, but one of the other terminal
entries contains a value for it.
A capability's value gets printed if the value in the first
.IR termname
is not found in any of the other
.I termname
entries, or if the first of the other
.I termname
entries has a different value for that capability.
.IP
The order of the other
.I termname
entries is significant.
Since the terminfo compiler
.BR tic (8V)
does a left-to-right scan of the capabilities, specifying two
.B use=
entries that contain differing entries for the same capabilities will
produce different results, depending on the order in which they are
given.
.B infocmp
flags any such inconsistencies between the other
.I termname
entries as they are found.
.IP
Alternatively, specifying a capability
after
a
.B use=
entry that contains it, will cause the second specification to
be ignored.
Using
.B infocmp
to recreate a description can be a useful check to make sure that
everything was specified correctly in the original.
.IP
Specifying superfluous
.B use=
slows down the comparison, but is not fatal;
.B infocmp
flags superfluous
.B use=
fields.
.SS Sorting Options
.TP
.B \-sd
Sort fields in the order that they are
stored in the
.B terminfo
database.
.TP
.B \-si
Sort fields by
.B terminfo
name.
.TP
.B \-sl
Sort fields by the long C variable name.
.TP
.B \-sc
Sort fields by the
.B termcap
name.
.IP
If no sorting option is given,
fields are sorted alphabetically by the
.B terminfo
name within each type, except in the case of the
.B \-C
or the
.BR \-L
options, which cause the sorting to be done by the
.B termcap
name or the long C variable name, respectively.
.br
.ne 8
.SS Changing Databases
The location of the compiled
.B terminfo
database is taken from the environment variable
\s-1\fBTERMINFO\s0\fR.
If the variable is not defined, or if the terminal is not found in that
location, the system
.B terminfo
database, usually in
.BR /usr/share/lib/terminfo ,
is used.
The options
.B \-A
and
.B \-B
may be used to override this location.  With these options, it is
possible to compare descriptions for a terminal with the same name
located in two different databases.  This is useful for comparing
descriptions for the same terminal created by different people.
.TP
.B \-A
Set
.SB TERMINFO
for the first
.IR termname
argument.
.TP
.B \-B
Set
.SB TERMINFO
for the remaining
.IR termname
arguments.
.SS Other Options
.TP
.B \-v
Print out tracing information on the standard error.
.TP
.B \-V
Print out the version of the program in use on the standard error
and exit.
.TP
.B \-1
Print fields out one to a line.
Otherwise, fields are printed several to a line to a maximum width
of 60 characters.
.TP
.BI \-w " width"
Change the output to
.I width
characters.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/share/lib/terminfo/?/*
compiled terminal description database
.TP
.B /usr/5include/term.h
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curses (3V),
.BR termcap (5),
.BR terminfo (5V),
.BR tic (8V)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B malloc is out of space!
There was not enough memory available to process
all the terminal descriptions requested.
Run
.B infocmp
in several smaller stages (with fewer
.I termname
arguments).
.TP
.B use= order dependency found:
A value specified in one relative terminal specification was different from
that in another relative terminal specification.
.TP
.BI "`use=" term "' did not add anything to the description."
A relative terminal name did not contribute anything to the final
description.
.HP
.B
must have at least two terminal names for a comparision to be done.
.br
The
.BR \-u ,
.B \-d
and
.B \-c
options require at least two terminal names.
