.\" @(#)installtxt.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new for 4.1
.TH INSTALLTXT 8 "2 February 1990"
.SH NAME
installtxt, gencat \- create a message archive 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/installtxt
.RB [[ \- ] d\fR\||\\fB\|c\fR\||\fB\|r\fR\||\fB\|t\fR\||\fB\|x\fR\||\fB\|i
[
.B ouvs
]]
]
.IR message-archive .\|.\|.
[
.I source-message-file
]
.LP
.B /usr/etc/gencat
.I catfile 
.IR msgfile .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "installtxt" "" "\fLinstalltxt\fP \(em create a message archive" ""
.IX "gencat" "" "\fLgencat\fP \(em create a message catalog" ""
.LP
.B installtxt
converts each
.I source-message-file
into a binary format message archive.
At the same time, if necessary, 
.B installtxt
maintains groups of files (member files) combined into a single message archive.
.B installtxt
is normally used to create and update message archives used by the
run-time message handling facility
.BR gettext (3).
.LP
.B gencat
performs the same function as 
.BR installtxt , 
but supports the X/Open catalog source format. 
.LP
.B installtxt
creates the message archive in 
.IR message-archive .
If the message archive
does not exist, it is created by the
.B \-c
option.
.I source-message-file
contains source versions of the target strings. 
On successful completion of an update operation of 
.BR installtxt ,
the message archive
will have been updated with details of the formatted version
of each
.IR source-message-file .
If 
.I message-archive
does not contain the full pathname of the run-time location of 
the message catalog, it will have to be moved 
to the appropriate locale directory before applications using the 
archive are activated.
.LP
.B gencat 
merges the message text source files (
.IR msgfile .\|.\|.)
into a formatted message catalog
.I catfile.
.I catfile 
is created if it does not already exist. If 
.I catfile
does exist,
its messages are included in the new
.I catfile.
If set and message numbers collide,
the new message-text defined in 
.I msgfile
will replace the old message text currently contained in 
.I catfile.
The output formats of both 
.I message_archive
and
.I catfile
are the same. However it should be noted that on a per-application
basis, it is not intended that the output forms of these two utilities 
should be mixed, and the consequence of doing so is undefined.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options and modifiers apply to 
.B installtxt 
only.  For 
.B installtxt 
you must indicate only one of:
.BR c ,
.BR d ,
.BR r ,
.BR t ,
or,
.BR x ,
which may be followed by one or more 
.BR Modifiers ,
.BR o ,
.BR u ,
or ,
.BR v .
.LP
The options are:
.TP
.B c
Create. The member file called 
.I "source-message-file"
is being made for the first time in the message archive.
It should not exist already. 
.TP
.B d
Delete the named member files from 
.IR "message archive" . 
Note that individual messages can be deleted by 
entering an empty value after the message-id selecting the message
to be deleted.
With the 
.B v
option these deletions are notified on the standard output.
.TP
.B r
Replace the named member files in the message archive. 
This allows the existing 
.I message archive 
to be merged with new versions of messages. 
No new message will be added to
the message archive unless each message-tag in the 
.I source-message-file 
is unique in the active domain. 
If the member file contains a message-tag that is not unique within the 
active domain, 
.B installtxt 
will fail and the contents of the active message archive will not be
altered.
.TP
.B t
Table of contents.
Produces a list on the standard output of all member files in
.IR message_archive .
.TP
.B x
Extract. If no names are given, all member files in the message archive
are extracted into the current directory; if names are given,
only those files are extracted. In neither case does
.B x
alter the 
message archive.
The extracted member files will be returned in their original source format.
It is possible for the 
.B \-x
option to lose comments that were contained in the original 
source message file.
In addition, overlong lines may be escaped (using \\n)
at a point that is different from the original source,
although the end result will logically
be the same string.
.br
.ne 7
.LP
.SS Modifiers
.TP
.B o
Old date.
When member files are extracted with the
.B x
option, set the 
\*(lqlast modified\*(rq date to the date recorded in the message archive.
.TP
.B u
Update.
Replace only those member files that have changed since they were put in the
message archive.  Used with the
.B r
option.
.TP
.B v
Verbose. When used with the
.BR c ,
.BR r ,
or
.BR d
option, give a file-by-file description of the creation of a
new 
.I message archive 
file from the old version and the constituent 
member files.
When used with
.BR x ,
give a file-by-file description of the extraction of message archive member 
files.
When used with
.BR t ,
print information about the size and creation date of the message archive,
as well
as a count of the number of target strings in the
message-archive.
.SH USAGE
.LP
.I source-message-file
consists of one or more lines of text, with each
line containing either a comment, a directive or a text line. 
The format of a comment line is:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
            "$ %s", \fIcomment\fP
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
A line beginning with a dollar sign ($), followed by a 
.I blank
character streated as a comment line.
The format of directives is:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
            "$%s %s", \fIcontrol-type\fP, \fIvalue\fP
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
Directives should be directly preceded by a dollar sign ($),
and followed by an optional value.
There is one 
.I blank
character between the directive and its value.
The following directives are recognized:
.TP 8
\fB $separator\fP \fIc\fP
This directive specifies an optional separator character that will subsequently
be used in the following text lines to separate the message identifier from the
target string. There is one 
.I blank
character between \fBseparator\fP and the separator character itself.
If this line is 
absent then the default separator is the 
.I blank 
character. Only the first 
occurrence of
this character on one text line will be interpreted,
for example:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
     $separator :
     12345:Bonjour: Mon ami
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.IP
would declare the message identifier to be 12345, the target string would
contain the second ":".
.TP 8
\fB $domain\fP \fIdomain\fP
This directive states that all following target strings are contained within a domain 
of the object message file as described by \fIdomain\fP. 
.I domain
can be any string of up to {\s-1PATH_MAX\s0}
bytes in length. 
.TP 
\fB$quote\fP \fIc\fP
This directive specifies an optional quote character \fIc\fP, which can be used to 
surround both
.I message_string
and 
.I message_identifier .
By default, or if an empty
.B $quote
directive is supplied, no quoting of 
.I message_string
will be recognized. If the 
.B $quote 
directive is given then all message strings must contain pairs of quotes,
although quotes around the message_identifier are still optional after the
directive.
.LP
The format of the text line is:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
"%s%s%s", \fImessage_identifier\fP, \fIseparator_character\fP, \fImessage_string\fP 
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
Each line defines a message identifier and a target string pair.
.LP
Empty lines in a source text file are ignored.
If a 
.I message_identifier
starts with a dollar ($) character, then that dollar character must be
escaped with a backslash (\\$).
Any other form of input line syntax is illegal and will cause 
.B installtxt
to exit with the error value.
.br
.ne 10
.LP
Message strings and message identifiers can contain the special characters and 
escape sequences as defined in the following table:
.LP
.ne 18
.RS
.TS
;
lB lB .
Description	Symbol

newline	\en
tab	\et
vertical-tab	\ev
backspace	\eb
carriage-return	\er
form-feed	\ef
backslash	\e\e
bit pattern	\eddd
.TE
.RE
.LP
The escape sequence 
.I \eddd 
consists of backslash followed by 1, 2 or 3 octal digits, 
which are used to specify the value of the desired character. 
If 
.I message_identifier
contains the separator character then it must be escaped with a backslash (\\) 
character.
If the character following a backslash is not one of those specified, 
the effect is unspecified.
.LP
Backslash, \e\|, followed by a 
.SM NEWLINE
character
is used to continue an individual string on the 
following line. Both 
.I message_identifier
and 
.I message_string 
may be continued over lines in this way.
.I message_string 
is stored in 
.I object_file
in an implementation specific way. 
If 
.I message_string
is empty, and 
.I separator 
is present, a null string
is stored in 
.IR object_file .
.LP
.I msgfile 
must be in the X/Open 
.B gencat 
format.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ft B
# /bin/sh script      
# The following creates a message archive in the file messages.general
installtxt \-cv messages.general input
#
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/locale/\s-1LC_MESSAGES\s0/\fIlocale\fP/\fIdomain\fP
standard private location for message archive/catalog in locale 
.I locale
and domain
.I domain
.TP
.B /usr/share/lib/locale/\s-1LC_MESSAGES\s0
standard shared location for message archive/catalog in locale 
.I locale
and domain
.I domain
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR catgets (3),
.BR gettext (3),
.BR setlocale (3V),
.BR locale (5) 
.LP
.I "X/Open Portability Guide Issue 2"
