.\" @(#)iostat.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH IOSTAT 8 "7 October 1990"
.SH NAME
iostat \- report I/O statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iostat
[
.B \-cdDIt
]
[
.BI "\-l " n
]
[
.IR disk " .\|.\|."
]
[
.I interval
[
.I count
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "iostat command"  ""  "\fLiostat\fP \(em report I/O statistics"
.IX  statistics  "I/O"  ""  "I/O \(em \fLiostat\fP"
.IX  "I/O statistics report iostat"  ""  "I/O statistics report \(em \fLiostat\fP"
.LP
.B iostat
can iteratively report
terminal and disk I/O activity, as well as
.SM CPU
utilization.
The first report is for  all time since a reboot and each
subsequent report is for the prior interval only.
.LP
In order to compute this information,
the kernel maintains a number of counters.
For each disk, seeks and data transfer completions
and number of words transferred are counted;
for terminals collectively, the number
of input and output characters are counted.
Also, at each clock tick, the state of each disk is examined
and a tally is made if the disk is active.
The kernel also provides approximate
transfer rates of the devices.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.BR iostat 's
activity class options default to
.B tdc
(terminal, disk, and
.SM CPU\s0).
If any activity class options are specified,
the default is completely overridden.  Therefore, if only
.B \-d
is specified, neither terminal nor
.SM CPU
statistics will be reported.
The last disk option specified
(either
.B \-d
or
.BR \-D )
is the only one that is used.
.TP
.B \-c
Report the percentage of time the system has
spent in user mode, in user mode running
low priority processes,
see
.BR nice (1),
in system mode, and idling.
.TP
.B \-d
For each disk, report the number of kilobytes transferred per second,
the number of transfers per second, and
the milliseconds per average seek (see
.SM BUGS
below).
.TP
.B \-D
For each disk, report the reads per second, writes per second,
and percentage disk utilization.
.TP
.B \-I
Report the counts in each interval,
rather than reporting rates.
.TP
.B \-t
Report the number of characters
read and written to terminals.
.TP
.BI "\-l " n
Limit the number of disks included in the report to
.IR n ;
the disk limit defaults to 4.  Note: disks explicitly
requested (see 
.I disk
below) are not subject to this disk limit.
.TP
.I disk
Explicitly specify the disks to be reported; in addition
to any explicit disks, any active disks up to
the disk limit (see
.B \-l
above) will also be reported.
.TP
.I interval
Report once each
.I interval
seconds.
.TP
.I count
Only print
.I count
reports.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/kmem
.TP
.B /vmunix
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vmstat (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Milliseconds per average seek is an approximation
based on the disk (not the controller) transfer rate.
Therefore, the seek time will be over-estimated in systems
with slower controllers.
.LP
.B iostat
only provides statistics on the first ten
disk drives, all others are ignored.
