.\" @(#)lockd.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH LOCKD 8C "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
lockd, rpc.lockd \- network lock daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/rpc.lockd
[
.B \-g
.I graceperiod
] [
.B \-t
.I timeout
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "lockd command"  ""  "\fLlockd\fP \(em network lock daemon"
.IX  servers lockd  ""  "\fLlockd\fP \(em network lock daemon"
.LP
.B lockd
processes lock requests that are either
sent locally by the kernel or remotely by another lock daemon.
.B lockd
forwards lock requests for remote data to the server site's
lock daemon through the
.BR rpc (3N)
.BR xdr (3N)
in 
.BR lockd (8C)
package.
.B lockd
then requests the status monitor daemon,
.BR statd (8C),
for monitor service.  The reply to the lock request will not be sent
to the kernel until
the status daemon and the server site's
lock daemon have replied.
.LP
If either the
status monitor or server site's lock daemon
is unavailable, the reply to a lock request for remote data
is delayed until all daemons become available.
.LP
When a server recovers,
it waits for a grace period for all client site
lock daemons to submit reclaim requests.
Client site
lock daemons,
on the other hand,
are notified by the status daemon
of the server recovery and promptly resubmit previously
granted lock requests.
If
.B lockd
fails to secure a previously granted lock at the server site,
it sends
.SM SIGLOST
to a process.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 20
.BI \-t " timeout"
Use
.I timeout
(seconds)
as the interval instead of the default value
(15 seconds)
to retransmit lock request to the remote server.
.TP
.BI \-g " graceperiod"
Use
.I graceperiod
.RB ( seconds )
as the grace period
duration instead of the default value (45 seconds).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fcntl (2V),
.BR lockf (3),
.BR signal (3V),
.BR statd (8C)
