.\" @(#)makedbm.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH MAKEDBM 8 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
makedbm \- make a NIS ndbm file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/yp/makedbm
[
.B \-b
]
[
.B \-l
]
[
.B \-s
]
[
.BI \-i " yp_input_file"
] [
.BI \-o " yp_output_name"
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.BI \-d " yp_domain_name"
]
[
.BI \-m " yp_master_name"
]
.I infile
.I outfile
.LP
.B makedbm
[
.BI \-u " dbmfilename"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "makedbm command"  ""  "\fLmakedbm\fP \(em make NIS ndbm file"
.IX  "create" "NIS ndbm file \(em \fLmakedbm\fP"
.IX  "YP"  "make ndbm file"  ""  "make ndbm file \(em \fLmakedbm\fP"
.IX  "NIS"  "make ndbm file"  ""  "make ndbm file \(em \fLmakedbm\fP"
.LP
.B makedbm
takes
.I infile
and converts it to a pair of files in
.BR ndbm (3)
format, namely
.IB outfile .pag
and
.IB outfile .dir\fR.
Each line of the input file is converted to a single
.B dbm
record.
All characters up to the first
.SM TAB
or
.SM SPACE
form the key, and the rest of the line is the data.
If a line ends with
.RB ` \e ',
then the data for that record is continued on to the next line.
It is left for the clients of the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
to interpret
.BR # ;
.B makedbm
does not itself treat it as a comment character.
.I infile
can be
.RB ` \- ',
in which case the standard input is read.
.LP
.B makedbm
is meant to be used in generating
.B dbm
files for the 
.SM NIS
service,
and it generates a special entry with the key
.IR yp_last_modified ,
which is the date of
.I infile
(or the current time, if
.I infile
is
.RB ` \- ').
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Interdomain. 
Propagate a map to all servers using the interdomain
name server
.BR named (8C).
.TP
.B \-l
Lowercase.
Convert the keys of the given map to lower case, so
that host name matches, for example, can work independent of upper
or lower case distinctions.
.TP
.B \-s
Secure map.
Accept connections from secure 
.SM NIS
networks only.
.TP
.BI \-i " yp_input_file"
Create a special entry with the key
.IR yp_input_file .
.TP
.BI \-o " yp_output_name"
Create a special entry with the key
.IR yp_output_name .
.TP
.BI \-d " yp_domain_name"
Create a special entry with the key
.IR yp_domain_name .
.TP 
.BI \-m " yp_master_name"
Create a special entry with the key
.IR yp_master_name .
If no master host name is specified,
.IR yp_master_name
will be set to the local host name.
.TP 
.BI \-u " dbmfilename"
Undo a
.B dbm
file.
That is, print out a
.B dbm
file one entry per line,
with a single space separating keys from values.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
It is easy to write shell scripts
to convert standard files such as
.B /etc/passwd
to the key value form used by
.BR makedbm .
For example:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
#!/bin/awk -f
\s-1BEGIN\s0 { \s-1FS\s0 = ":"; \s-1OFS\s0 = "\et"; }
{ print $1, $0 }
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
takes the
.B /etc/passwd
file and converts it to a form that can be read by
.B makedbm
to make the 
.SM NIS
file
.BR passwd.byname .
That is, the key is a username,
and the value is the remaining line in the
.B /etc/passwd
file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR yppasswd (1),
.BR ndbm (3),
.BR named (8C)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
