.\" @(#) mkfs.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH MKFS 8 "5 July 1990"
.SH NAME
mkfs \- construct a file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/mkfs
[
.B \-N
]
.I special size
.RI [ " nsect " ]
.RI [ " ntrack " ]
.if n .ti +0.5i
.RI [ " blksize " ]
.RI [ " fragsize " ]
.RI [ " ncpg " ]
.RI [ " minfree " ]
.if n .ti +0.5i
.if t .ti +0.5i
.RI [ " rps " ]
.RI [ " nbpi " ]
.RI [ " opt " ]
.RI [ " apc " ]
.RI [ " rot " ]
.RI [ " nrpos " ]
.RI [ " maxcontig " ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "mkfs command"  ""  "\fLmkfs\fP \(em make file system"
.IX  make "file system \(em \fLmkfs\fP"
.IX  "create"  "file system \(em \fLmkfs\fP"
.IX  "file system"  "make mkfs"  "file system"  "make \(em \fLmkfs\fP"
.LP
Note:
file systems are normally created with the
.BR newfs (8)
command.
.LP
.B mkfs
constructs a file system by writing on the special file
.I special
unless the
.B \-N
flag has been specified.
.I special
must be specified as a raw device and disk partition.
For example, to create a file system on
.BR sd0 ,
specify
.BR /dev/rsd0[a-h] ,
where
.B a-h
is the disk partition.
.LP
The numeric
.I size
specifies the number of sectors in the file system.
.B mkfs
builds a file system with a root directory and a lost+found
directory (see
.BR fsck (8)).
The number of inodes is calculated as a
function of the file system size.
No boot program is initialized by
.B mkfs
(see
.BR newfs (8)).
.LP
You must be super-user to use this command.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-N
Print out the file system parameters without actually creating the file
system.
.LP
The following arguments allow fine tune control over the
parameters of the file system.
.TP
.I nsect
The number of sectors per track on the disk.  The default is
.BR 32 .
.TP
.I ntrack
The number of tracks per cylinder on the disk.  The default is
.BR 16 .
.TP
.I blksize
The primary block size for files on the file system.
It must be a power of two, currently selected from
.B 4096
or
.B 8192
(the default).
.TP
.I fragsize
The fragment size for files on the file system.
The
.I fragsize
represents the smallest amount of disk
space that will be allocated to a file.
It must be a power of two currently selected from the range
.B 512
to
.BR 8192 .
The default is
.BR 1024 .
.TP
.I ncpg
The number of disk cylinders per cylinder group.
The default is
.BR 16 .
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.I minfree
The minimum percentage of free disk space allowed.
Once the file system capacity reaches this threshold, only
the super-user is allowed to allocate disk blocks.
The default value is 
.BR 10% .
.TP
.I rps
The rotational speed of the disk, in revolutions per second.
The default is
.BR 60 .
.TP
.I nbpi
The number of bytes for which one inode block is allocated.
This parameter is
currently set at 
.B one
inode block for every 2048 bytes.
.TP
.I opt
Space or time optimization preference;
.B s
specifies optimization for space,
.B t
specifies optimization for time.  The default is
.BR t .
.TP
.I apc
The number of alternates per cylinder (\s-1SCSI\s0 devices only). 
The default is
.BR 0 .
.TP
.I rot
The expected time (in milliseconds)
to service a transfer completion
interrupt and initiate a new transfer on the same disk.
It is used to decide how much rotational spacing to place between
successive blocks in a file.  The default is
.BR 1 .
.sp
.BR Note :
in earlier releases
.B mkfs
tried to guess what the right value for this parameter by querying the 
controller type.  Since
.B mkfs
is a more primitive interface, this query has been moved into 
.BR newfs .
.B mkfs 
now does exactly what you tell it to do.
.TP
.I nrpos
The number of distinguished rotational positions.
The default is 
.BR 8 .
.br
.ne 6
.TP
.I maxcontig
The maximum number of blocks that will be allocated contiguously before 
inserting a rotational delay.  The default is 
.BR 1 .
.sp
\fBNote:\fR This parameter also controls
clustering.  Regardless of the value of \fIrotdelay\fR,
clustering is enabled only when \fImaxcontig\fR is greater than 1.
Clustering allows higher I/O rates for sequential
I/O and is described in
.BR tunefs (8).
.LP
Users with special demands for their file systems are referred to
the paper cited below for a discussion of the tradeoffs in using
different configurations.
.br
.ne 5
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dir (5),
.BR fs (5),
.BR fsck (8),
.BR newfs (8),
.BR tunefs (8)
.LP
.TX ADMIN
.br
McKusick, Joy, Leffler;
.I "A Fast File System for \s-1UNIX\s0"
.SH NOTES
.LP
.BR newfs (8)
is preferred for most routine uses.
