.\" @(#)monitor.8s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; 
.TH MONITOR 8S "23 April 1991"
.SH NAME
monitor \- system ROM monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SB L1\-A
.sp .5v
.SB BREAK
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "monitor program" ""  "monitor program \(em \fLmonitor\fR"
.IX  "bootstrap PROM monitor program"  ""  "bootstrap PROM monitor program \(em \fLmonitor\fR"
.IX  "PROM monitor program"  ""  "PROM monitor program \(em \fLmonitor\fR"
.IX  "CPU PROM monitor" "program" "" "program \(em \fLmonitor\fR"
.IX  "system PROM monitor program" ""  "system PROM monitor program \(em \fLmonitor\fR"
.LP
The
.SM CPU
board of the Sun workstation contains an 
.SM EPROM
(or set of 
.SM EPROM\*Ss),
called the
.IR monitor , 
that controls the system during startup.
The monitor tests 
the system before attempting to boot 
the operating system.
If you interrupt the boot procedure by holding down
.SB L1
while typing
.B a
or
.B A
on the workstation keyboard (or
.SB BREAK
if the console is a dumb terminal), the monitor issues the prompt:
.IP
.B >
.LP
and accepts commands interactively.
.LP
On a 
Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0system or a \s-1SPARC\s0system 600\s-1MP\s0,
the message
.IP
.B Type\ b\ (boot),\ c\ (continue),\ or\ n\ (new\ command\ mode)
.LP
will be displayed prior to the monitor prompt
.RB  ` > '.
.SH USAGE
.SS Modes
.LP
The monitor supports three security modes (non-secure, command secure, and
fully secure) and an authentication password.
Access to monitor commands is controlled by these security modes.
In
.B non-secure
mode all monitor commands are allowed.
In
.B "command secure"
mode, only the
.BR b (boot)
command with no arguments and the
.BR c (continue)
command with no arguments may be entered without supplying the authentication
password.
In
.B "fully secure"
mode, only the
.BR c (continue)
command with no arguments may be entered without supplying the authentication
password.
Note:
The system will not auto-reboot in fully secure mode.
The authentication password must be entered before booting will take place.
.SS Commands
.LP
Note: the following commands are available on all Sun systems
.I except
Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems and \s-1SPARC\s0system 600\s-1MP\s0 series;
only the
.BR b ,
.BR c ,
and
.B n
commands listed below are available on those systems.
.TP 12
.BR + | \-
Increment or decrement the current address and display the
contents of the new location.
.\"
.TP
.BI ^C " source destination n"
(caret-C)
Copy, byte-by-byte, a block of length 
.I n
from the
.I source
address to the
.I destination
address.
.\"
.TP
.BI ^I " program
(caret-I)
Display the compilation date and location of 
.IR program .
.TP
.BI ^T " virtual_address
(caret-T)
Display the physical address to which
.I virtual_address
is mapped.
.\"
.HP
.B a
.RI [ n "] [" action "].\|.\|.	(Sun-3 systems only)"
.br
Open 
.BR A \-register
(cpu address register)
.IR n ,
and perform indicated actions.  The number
.I n
can be any value from
.B 0
to
.BR 7 ,
inclusive.  The default value
is
.BR 0 .
A hexadecimal
.I action
argument assigns the value you supply to the register
.IR n .
A non-hex
.I action
terminates command input.
.\"
.HP
.B b
[
.I device
[
.BI ( c , u , p\|\fB)
] ] [
.I pathname
] [
.I arguments_list
]   (\s-1SPARC\s0station 1 systems only)
.br
.PD 0
See
.BR openboot (8S)
for details.
.\"
.br
.HP
.B b
[
.I device-specifier
] [
.I pathname
] [
.I arguments-list
]    (\s-1SPARC\s0station 2 systems, \s-1SPARC\s0system 600\s-1MP\s0 series only)
.br
.PD
See
.BR openboot (8s)
for details.
.HP
.B b
[
.B !
] [
.I device
[
.BI ( c , u , p\|\fB)
] ] [
.I pathname
] [
.I arguments_list
]
.br
.TP
.BR b [ ? ]
.PD
Reset appropriate parts of the system and bootstrap
a program.
Note:
the
.RB ` b! '
and
.RB ` b? '
commands are not available on
Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems and \s-1SPARC\s0system 600\s-1MP\s0 series,
see
.BR openboot (8S).
A
.RB  ` ! '
(preceding the
.I device
argument) prevents the system reset from occurring.
Programs can be loaded from various devices
(such as a disk, tape, or Ethernet).
.RB ` b '
with no arguments will cause a default boot, either from a
disk, or from an Ethernet controller.
.RB ` b? '
displays all boot devices and their
.I device
arguments, where
.I device
is one of:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
.B le
.PD 0
Lance Ethernet
.TP
.B ie
Intel Ethernet (Sun-3, Sun-4 systems only)
.TP
.B sd
.SM SCSI
disk, \s-1CDROM\s0
.TP
.B st
.SM SCSI
1/4" or 1/2" tape
.TP
.B fd
Diskette (Sun386i, Sun-3/80 systems, Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems only)
.TP
.B id
\s-1IPI\s0 disk (Sun-4 systems, \s-1SPARC\s0system 600\s-1MP\s0 series only)
.TP
.B mt
Tape Master 9-track 1/2" tape (Sun-3, Sun-4 systems only)
.TP
.B xd
Xylogics 7053 disk (Sun-3, Sun-4 systems only)
.TP
.B xt
Xylogics 1/2" tape (Sun-3, Sun-4 systems only)
.TP
.B xy
Xylogics 440/450 disk (Sun-3, Sun-4 systems only)
.PD
.RE
.RE
.RS
.TP
.I c
A controller number
.RB ( 0
if only one controller),
.TP
.I u
A unit number
.RB ( 0
if only one driver), and
.TP
.I p
A partition.
.TP
.I pathname
A pathname for a program such as 
.BR /stand/diag . 
.B /vmunix
is the default.
.TP
.I arguments_list
A list of up to seven arguments to pass to the program being booted.
.\"
.RE
.TP
.PD 0
.BR c "                       (Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems, \s-1SPARC\s0system 600\s-1MP\s0 series only);"
.HP
.PD
.B c
.RI [ virtual_address ]
(Sun-3, Sun-4 and Sun386i systems only)
.br
Resume execution of a program.
Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems and \s-1SPARC\s0system 600\s-1MP\s0 series
do not accept a virtual address;
the current
.SM PC 
is assumed.
See the
.I "Open \s-1PROM\s0 Toolkit User's Guide"
or
.I "Open \s-1PROM\s0 2.0 Toolkit User's Guide"
for details on changing this value.
When given,
.I virtual_address
is the address at which execution will resume.
The default is the current
.SM PC\s0
(\s-1EIP\s0 on Sun386i systems).
Registers are restored to the values shown by the
.BR a , 
.BR d , 
and 
.B r 
commands (for Sun-3 systems), or by the 
.B d
and
.B r
commands (for Sun-4 systems), or by the
.B d
command (for Sun386i systems).
.\"
.HP
.B d
.RI [ window_number "]	(Sun-4 systems only)"
.br
Display (dump) the state of the processor.
The processor state is observable only after:
.RS
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
An unexpected trap was encountered.
.PD 0
.TP
\(bu
A user program dropped into the monitor (by calling
.IR abortent ).
.TP
\(bu
The user manually entered the monitor by typing
.SB L1\-A
or
.BR \s-1BREAK\s0 .
.PD
.RE
.RE
.ne 6
.IP
The display consists of the following:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
\(bu
The special registers:
.SM PSR\s0,
.SM PC\s0,
n\s-1PC\s0,
.SM TBR\s0,
.SM WIM\s0,
and Y
.PD 0
.TP
\(bu
Eight global registers, and
.TP
\(bu
24 window registers (8
.IR in ,
8
.IR local ,
and 8
.IR out ),
corresponding to one of the 7 available windows.  If a
Floating-Point Unit is on board, its status register along with
its 32 floating-point registers are also shown.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I window_number
Display the indicated
.IR window_number ,
which can be any value between 0 and 6, inclusive.  If no window
is specified and the
.SM PSR\s0's
current window pointer contains a
valid window number, registers from the window that was active just
prior to entry into the monitor are displayed.  Otherwise,
registers from window 0 are displayed.
.RE
.\"
.TP
\fBd\fR	(Sun386i systems only)
Display (dump) the state of the processor.
This display consists of the registers, listed below: 
.RS
.RS
.TP 28
Processor Registers:
.SM "EAX, ECX, EDX, ESI, EDI, ESP, EBP, EFLAGS, EIP"
.PD 0
.TP
Segment Registers:
.SM "ES, CS, SS, DS, FS, GS"
.TP
Memory Management Registers:
.SM "GDTR, LDTR, IDTR, TR"
.TP
Control Registers:
.SM CR0, CR2, CR3
.TP
Debug Registers:
.SM "DR0, DR1 , DR2 , DR3, DR6, DR7"
.TP
Test Registers:
.SM TR6, TR7
.PD
.RE
.RE
.IP
The processor's state is observable only after an 
unexpected trap, a user program has 
\*(lqdropped\*(rq into the monitor (by calling monitor function 
.IR abortent )
or the user has manually \*(lqbroken \*(rq
into the monitor (by typing
.SB L1\-A
on the Workstation console, or
.SB BREAK
on the dumb terminal's keyboard.
.\"
.HP 
.B d
.RI [ n ]\|[ action "]\|.\|.\|.	(Sun-3 systems only)"
.br
Open 
.BR D \-register 
(cpu data register)
.IR n , 
and perform indicated actions.
The number
.I n 
can be any value from
.B 0
to
.BR 7 ,
inclusive.
The default is
.BR 0 .
See the
.B a
command for a description of
.IR action .
.\"
.HP
.B e
.RI [ virtual_address ]\|[ action "] .\|.\|."
.br
Open the 16-bit word at 
.I virtual_address
.\" Sun386i
(default zero).  On Sun-3, and Sun-4 systems, the address is 
interpreted in the address space defined by the 
.B s
command.
See the
.B a
command for a description of
.IR action .
.\"
.br
.ne 11
.HP 
.BI f " virtual_address1 virtual_address2 pattern "
.RI [ size\| "]	(Sun-3 and Sun-4 systems only)"
.br
Fill the bytes, words, or long words from 
.I virtual_address1 
(lower) to
.I virtual_address2
(higher) with the constant, 
.IR pattern .
The
.I size
argument can take one of the following values
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
.B b
byte format (the default)
.PD 0
.TP
.B w
word format
.TP
.B l
long word format
.PD
.RE
.RE
.IP
For example, the following command fills the address block from 0x1000 
to 0x2000 with the word pattern, 0x\s-1ABCD\s0:
.RS
.IP
.B "f 1000 2000 \s-1ABCD\s0 W"
.RE
.\"
.HP
.B g
.RI [ vector\| "] [" argument\| ]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.B g
.RI [ virtual_address\| "] [" argument \|]
.br
.PD
Goto (jump to) a predetermined or default routine (first form),
or to a user-specified routine (second form).  The value of
.I argument
is passed to the routine.  If the
.I vector
or
.I virtual_address
argument is omitted, the value in the
.SM PC
is used as the address to jump to.
.IP
To set up a predetermined routine to jump to, a user program must,
prior to executing the monitor's
.B g
command, set the variable 
.B *romp->v_vector_cmd
to be equal to the virtual address of the desired routine.
Predetermined routines need not necessarily return control
to the monitor.
.IP
The default routine, defined by the monitor, prints the user-supplied
.I vector
according to the format supplied in 
.IR argument .
This format can be one of:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
.PD 0
.B %x
hexadecimal
.TP
.B %d
decimal
.PD
.RE
.RE
.\"
.TP
\fBg0\fR	(Sun-3, and Sun-4 only)
When the monitor is running as a result of 
the system being interrupted, force a panic and produce a crash dump.
.IP \fBg4\fR (Sun-3, and Sun-4 only)
When the monitor is running as a result of 
the system
being interrupted, force a kernel stack trace.
.\"
.TP 
\fBh\fR	(Sun-3 and Sun-4 and Sun386i systems)
Display the help menu for monitor commands and their descriptions.
To return to the monitor's basic command level, press
.SM ESCAPE
or
.B q
before pressing
.SM RETURN.
.\"
.br
.ne 6
.TP
\fBi \fR[\fIcache_data_offset\fR\|] [\fIaction\fR\|]\|.\|.\|.		(Sun-3/200 series and Sun-4 systems only)
.br
Modify cache data
.SM RAM
command.  Display and/or modify one or more of the
cache data addresses.  See the
.B a
command for a description of
.IR action .
.\"
.HP
.B j
.RI [ cache_tag_offset "\|] [" action\| "]\|.\|.\|.	(Sun-3/200 series and Sun-4 systems only)"
.br
Modify cache tag
.SM RAM
command.  Display and/or modify the contents of
one or more of the cache tag addresses.  See the
.B a
command for a description of
.IR action .
.\"
.HP
.B k\|
.RI [ reset_level \|]
.br
Reset the system.  If 
.I reset_level
is:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
.B 0
.SM CPU
reset only (Sun-3 systems).  Reset
.SM VME\s0bus,
interrupt registers, video monitor (Sun-4 systems).
This is the default.  Reset video (Sun386i systems).
.PD 0
.TP
.B 1
Software reset.
.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B 2
Power-on reset.
Resets and clears the memory. 
Runs the
.SM EPROM\s0-based
diagnostic self test, which can take several
minutes, depending upon how much memory is being tested.
.PD
.RE
.RE
.\"
.TP
.B kb
Display the system banner.
.\"
.HP
.B l\|
.RI [ virtual_address \|]\|[ action ]\|.\|.\|.
.br
Open the long word (32 bit) at memory address 
.I virtual_address
.\" Sun386i
(default zero).  On Sun-3 and Sun-4 systems, the address is 
interpreted in the address space defined by the 
.B s
command (below).  See the
.B a
command for a description of
.IR action .
.\"
.HP
.B m\|
.RI [ virtual_address \|]\|[ action \|]\|.\|.\|.
.br
Open the segment map entry that maps
.I virtual_address
.\" Sun386i
(default zero).  On Sun-3 and Sun-4 systems, the address is 
interpreted in the address space defined by the 
.B s
command.  Not supported on Sun386i.
See the
.B a
command for a description of
.IR action .
.\"
.TP
.BR n "	(Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems, \s-1SPARC\s0system 600\s-1MP\s0 series only)"
Enter the new command mode. Type
.RB ` old-mode '
to return to the old command mode.
See the
.I "Open \s-1PROM\s0 Toolkit User's Guide"
for a complete list of commands available on a
\s-1SPARC\s0station 1 systems; See the
.I "Open Boot \s-1PROM\s0 2.0 Toolkit User's Guide"
for a complete list of commands available on
\s-1SPARC\s0station 2 and \s-1SPARC\s0system 600MP series.
.TP
\fBnd\fR	(Sun386i systems only)
.PD 0
.TP
.BR ne
.TP
.BR ni
.PD
Disable, enable, or invalidate the cache, respectively.
.\"
.HP
.B o\|
.RI [ virtual_address \|]\|[action ]\|.\|.\|.
.br
Open the byte location specified  by 
.IR virtual_address
.\" Sun386i
(default zero).  On Sun-3 and Sun-4 systems, the address is 
interpreted in the address space defined by the 
.B s
command.
See the
.B a
command for a description of
.IR action .
.\"
.HP
.B p\|
.RI [ virtual_address \|]\|[ action ].\|.\|.
.br
Open the page map entry that maps
.I virtual_address 
(default zero) in the address space defined by the
.B s
command.  
See the
.B a
command for a description of
.IR action .
.\"
.TP
\fBp\fP [\fIport_address\fP] [[\fInonhex_char\fP [\fIhex_value\fP] | \fIhex_value\fP] ...]	(Sun386i systems only)
Display or modify the contents of one or more port I/O addresses in
byte mode.  Each port address is treated as an 8-bit unit.  The optional
.I port_address
argument, which is a 16-bit quantity, specifies the initial port I/O address.
See the
.B e
command for argument descriptions.
.\"
.HP 
.B q\|
.RI [ eeprom_offset \|]\|[ action "\|].\|.\|.	(Sun-3 and Sun-4 systems only)"
.br
Open the
.SM EEPROM
.I eeprom_offset
(default zero) in the
.SM EEPROM
address space.  
All addresses are referenced from the beginning or base of the 
.SM EEPROM
in physical address space, and a limit check is performed to 
insure that no address beyond the
.SM EEPROM
physical space is accessed.  
On Sun386i systems, open the
.SM NVRAM
.I nvram_offset
(default zero).
This command is used to display or modify configuration parameters,
such as: the amount of memory to test during self test,
whether to display a standard or custom banner, 
if a serial port (A or B) is to be the system console, etc.   
See the
.B a
command for a description of
.IR action .
.\"
.\"
.TP
\fBr\fP [\fIreg_name\fP] [[\fInonhex_char\fP [\fIhex_value\fP] | \fIhex_value\fP] ...]  (Sun386i systems only)
Display or modify one or more of the processor registers.
If
.I "reg_name"
is specified (2 or 3 characters from the above list), that
register is displayed first.  The default is
.SM
.BR EAX . 
See note on register availability under the command
.BR d 
(for Sun386i systems).
See the 
.B e
command for argument descriptions.
.\"
.TP
\fBs\fP [\fIstep_count\fP]  	(Sun386i systems only)
Single step the execution of the interrupted program.  The
.I step_count
argument specifies the number of single steps to execute 
before displaying the monitor prompt.  The default is 1. 
.br
.ne 5
.HP
.B r\|
.RI [ register_number ]\|[ action "\|]\|.\|.\|.	(Sun-3 systems only)"
.br
Display and/or modify the register indicated.
.I register_number
can be one of:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
.SB CA
68020 Cache Address Register
.PD 0
.TP
.SB CC
68020 Cache Control Register
.TP
.SB CX
68020 System and User Context
.TP
.SB DF
Destination Function code
.TP
.SB IS
68020 Interrupt Stack Pointer
.TP
.SB MS
68020 Master Stack Pointer
.TP
.SB PC
Program Counter
.TP
.SB SC
68010 System Context
.TP
.SB SF
Source Function code
.TP
.SB SR
Status Register
.TP
.SB SS
68010 Supervisor Stack Pointer
.TP
.SB UC
68010 User Context
.TP
.SB US
User Stack Pointer
.TP
.SB VB
Vector Base
.PD
.RE
.RE
.IP
Alterations to these registers (except
.SB SC
and
.BR \s-1UC\s0 )
do not take effect until the next 
.B c 
command is executed.
See the
.B a
command for a description of
.IR action .
.\"
.br
.ne 15
.HP
.PD 0
.B r\|
.RI [ register_number\| "]	(Sun-4 systems only)"
.br
.HP
.B r\|
.RI [ register_type\| ]
.br
.HP
.B r\|
.RI [ "w window_number\|" ]
.br
.PD
Display and/or modify one or more of the
.SM IU
or
.SM FPU
registers.
.IP
A hexadecimal
.I register_number
can be one of:
.RS
.RS
.TP 12
.BR 0x00 \(em\& 0x0f
.PD 0
window(0,i0)\(em\&window(0,i7), window(0,i0)\(em\&window(0,i7)
.TP
.BR 0x16 \(em\& 0x1f
window(1,i0)\(em\&window(1,i7), window(1,i0)\(em\&window(1,i7)
.TP
.BR 0x20 \(em\& 0x2f
window(2,i0)\(em\&window(2,i7), window(2,i0)\(em\&window(2,i7)
.TP
.BR 0x30 \(em\& 0x3f
window(3,i0)\(em\&window(3,i7), window(3,i0)\(em\&window(3,i7)
.TP
.BR 0x40 \(em\& 0x4f
window(4,i0)\(em\&window(4,i7), window(4,i0)\(em\&window(4,i7)
.TP
.BR 0x50 \(em\& 0x5f
window(5,i0)\(em\&window(5,i7), window(5,i0)\(em\&window(5,i7)
.TP
.BR 0x60 \(em\& 0x6f
window(6,i0)\(em\&window(6,i7), window(6,i0)\(em\&window(6,i7)
.TP
.BR 0x70 \(em\& 0x77
g0, g1, g2, g3, g4, g5, g6, g7
.TP
.BR 0x78 \(em\& 0x7d
.SM PSR\s0,
.SM PC\s0,
.SM nPC\s0,
.SM WIM\s0,
.SM TBR\s0,
Y
.TP
.BR 0x7e \(em\& 0x9e
.SM FSR\s0,
f0\(em\&f31
.PD
.RE
.IP
Register numbers can only be displayed after an unexpected trap,
a user program has entered the monitor using the
.I abortent
function, or the user has entered the monitor by manually typing
.SB L1\-A
or
.BR \s-1BREAK\s0 .
.RE
.IP
If a 
.I register_type
is given, the first register of the indicated type is displayed.
.I register_type
can be one of:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
.PD 0
.B f
floating-point
.TP
.B g
global
.TP
.B s
special
.PD
.RE
.RE
.IP
If 
.B w
and a
.I window_number
.RB ( 0 \(em 6 )
are given, the first
.IR in -register
within the indicated window is displayed.  If 
.I window_number
is omitted, the window that was active just prior to entering
the monitor is used.  If the
.SM PSR\s0's
current window pointer is invalid, window 0 is used.
.\"
.br
.ne 11
.HP
.B s\|
.RI [ code "]	(Sun-3 systems only)"
.br
Set or query the address space to be used by subsequent 
memory access commands.
.I code
is one of:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
.PD 0
.B 0
undefined
.TP
.B 1
user data space
.TP
.B 2
user program space
.TP
.B 3
user control space
.TP
.B 4
undefined
.TP
.B 5
supervisor data space
.TP
.B 6
supervisor program space
.TP
.B 7
supervisor control space
.PD
.RE
.RE
.IP
If
.I code
is omitted,
.B s
displays the current address space.
.br
.ne 15
.HP
.B s\|
.RI [ asi "\|]	(Sun-4 systems only)"
.br
Set or display the Address Space Identifier.  With no argument,
.B s
displays the current Address Space Identifier.  The
.I asi
value can be one of:
.RS
.RS
.TP 12
.B 0x2
.PD 0
control space
.TP
.B 0x3
segment table
.TP
.B 0x4
Page table
.TP
.B 0x8
user instruction
.TP
.B 0x9
supervisor instruction
.TP
.B 0xa
user data
.TP
.B 0xb
supervisor data
.TP
.B 0xc
flush segment
.TP
.B 0xd
flush page
.TP
.B 0xe
flush context
.TP
.B 0xf
cache data
.PD
.RE
.RE
.\"
.HP 
.B t\|
.RI [ program "]	(Sun-3 systems only)"
.br
Trace the indicated standalone
.IR program .  
Works only with programs that do not affect interrupt vectors.
.\"
.HP
.B u
[
.I echo
]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.B u
[
.I port
] [
.I options
] [
.I baud_rate
]
.br
.HP
.B u
[
.B u
] [
.I virtual_address
]
.br
.PD
With no arguments, display the current I/O device characteristics
including:
current input device,
current output device, 
baud rates for serial ports A and B,
an input-to-output echo indicator,
and virtual addresses of mapped
.SM UART
devices.
With arguments, set or configure the current I/O device.  With the 
.B u
argument
.RB ( uu .\|.\|.),
set the I/O device to be the
.I virtual_address
of a
.SM UART
device currently mapped.
.RS
.RS
.TP 12
.I echo
Can be either
.B e
to enable input to be echoed to the output device, or
.BR ne ,
to indicate that input is not echoed.
.TP
.I port
Assign the indicated 
.I port
to be the current I/O device.
.I port
can be one of:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
.B a
serial port A
.PD 0
.TP
.B b
serial port B (except on Sun386i systems)
.TP
.B k
the workstation keyboard
.TP
.B s
the workstation screen
.PD
.RE
.RE
.TP
.I baud_rate
Any legal baud rate.
.IP
.I options
can be any combination of:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
.PD 0
.B i
input
.TP
.B o
output
.TP
.B u
.SM UART
.TP
.B e
echo input to output
.TP
.B ne
do not echo input
.TP
.B r
reset indicated serial port 
.RB ( a
and
.B b
ports only)
.RE
.RE
.PD
.IP
If either
.B a
or 
.B b
is supplied, and no
.I options
are given, the serial port is assigned for both input and output.  If
.B k
is supplied with no options, it is assigned for input only.  If
.B s
is supplied with no options, it is assigned for output only.
.RE
.RE
.\"
.br
.ne 10
.HP 
.BI v " virtual_address1 virtual_address2 "
.RI [ size "]	(Sun-3 and Sun-4 systems only)"
.br
Display the contents of 
.I virtual_address1 
(lower)
.I virtual_address2
(higher)
in the format specified by
.IR size : 
.RS
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 4
.B b
byte format (the default)
.TP
.B w
word format
.TP
.B l
long word format
.PD
.RE
.RE
.IP
Enter return to pause for viewing; enter another return character 
to resume the display.  To terminate the display at any time, 
press the space bar.
.IP
For example, the following command displays the contents of virtual 
address space from address 0x1000 to 0x2000 in word format:
.RS
.RS
.IP
.B v 1000 2000 W
.RE
.RE
.\"
.br
.ne 10
.HP
.B w\|
.RI [ virtual_address\| ]\|[ argument\| "]	(Sun-3 and Sun-4 systems only)"
.br
Set the execution vector to a predetermined or default routine.
Pass 
.I virtual_address
and
.I argument
to that routine.
.IP
To set up a predetermined routine to jump to, a user program must,
prior to executing the monitor's
.B w
command, set the variable 
.B *romp->v_vector_cmd
to be equal to the virtual address of the desired routine.
Predetermined routines need not necessarily return control
to the monitor.
.IP
The default routine, defined by the monitor, prints the user-supplied
.I vector
according to the format supplied in 
.IR argument .
This format can be one of:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
.PD 0
.B %x
hexadecimal
.TP
.B %d
decimal
.PD
.RE
.RE
.\"
.TP 
.BR x "	(Sun-3 and Sun-4 systems only)"
Display a menu of extended tests.
These diagnostics permit additional testing of such things as the I/O
port connectors, video memory, workstation memory and
keyboard, and boot device paths.
.\"
.TP
.BI y\|c " context_number	\fR(Sun-4 systems only)"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI y\|p\fR|s\| " context_number virtual_address"
.\"
Flush the indicated context, context page, or context segment.  
.RS
.RS
.TP 3
.B c
.PD 0
flush context
.IR context_number
.TP
.B p
flush the page beginning at
.I virtual_address
within context
.IR context_number
.TP
.B s
flush the segment beginning at
.I virtual_address
within context
.IR context_number
.PD
.RE
.RE
.\"
.br
.ne 13
.TP
\fBz\fP [\fInumber\fP] [\fIbreakpoint_virtual_address\fP [\fItype\fP] [\fIlen\fP]]  	(Sun386i systems only)
Set or reset breakpoints for debugging.
With no arguments, this command displays the existing breakpoints. 
The
.I number
argument is a values from 0 to 3, corresponding to the processor debug
registers, 
.SB DR0
to
.SM
.BR DR3 ,
respectively.  Up to 4 distinct breakpoints can be specified. 
If
.I number
is not specified then the monitor chooses a breakpoint number. 
The
.I "breakpoint_virtual_address"
argument specifies the breakpoint address.  
The 
.I "type"
argument can be one of:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
.B x
.PD 0
Instruction Execution breakpoint (the default)
.TP
.B m
for Data Write only breakpoint
.TP
.B r
Data Reads and Writes only breakpoint.
.PD
.RE
.RE
.IP
The
.I "len"
argument can be one of:
.RB ` b ',
.RB ` w ',
or
.RB ` l ',
corresponding to the breakpoint field length of byte, word,
or 
long-word, respectively.  The default is
.RB ` b '.
Since the breakpoints are set in the on-chip registers, an instruction
breakpoint can be placed in
.SM ROM
code or in code shared by several tasks. 
If the 
.I "number"
argument is specified but not
.IR "breakpoint_virtual_address" ,
the corresponding breakpoint is reset.
.\"
.HP 
.B z\|
.RI [ virtual_address "]	(Sun-3 systems only)"
.br
Set a breakpoint at
.I virtual_address
in the address space selected by the
.B s
command.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /vmunix
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR boot (8S),
.BR eeprom (8S),
.BR openboot (8S)
.LP
.I "Open \s-1PROM\s0 Toolkit User's Guide"
.br
.I "Open \s-1PROM\s0 2.0 Toolkit User's Guide"
