.\" @(#)mount.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH MOUNT 8 "19 June 1991"
.SH NAME
mount, umount \- mount and unmount file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/mount
[
.B \-p
]
.br
.B /usr/etc/mount
.BR \-a
[
.B fnv
]
[
.B \-t
.I type
]
.br
.B /usr/etc/mount
[
.B \-fnrv
] [
.BI \-t " type"
] [
.BI \-o " options"
]
.I filesystem
.I directory
.br
.B /usr/etc/mount
[
.B \-vfn
] [
.BI \-o " options"
]
.IR filesystem " | " directory
.br
.B /usr/etc/mount
.BR \-d
[ 
.B fnvr
]
[
.BI \-o " options"
]
.IR RFS-resource " | " directory
.LP
.B /usr/etc/umount
[
.BI \-t " type"
] [
.BI \-h " host"
]
.br
.B /usr/etc/umount
.BR \-a
[
.B v
]
.br
.B /usr/etc/umount
[
.B \-v
]
.IR filesystem \||\| directory "  .\|.\|."
.br
.B /usr/etc/umount
[
.B \-d
]
.IR RFS-resource " | " directory "
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "mount command"  ""  "\fLmount\fP \(em mount filesystem"
.IX  "mount file system"  ""  "mount file system \(em \fLmount\fP"
.IX  "file system"  "mount"  ""  "mount \(em \fLmount\fP"
.IX  "file system"  "loopback" "" "loopback \(em \fLmount\fP"
.IX  "loopback file system"  "mount" "" "mount \(em \fLmount\fP"
.IX  "umount command"  ""  "\fLumount\fP \(em unmount file system"
.IX  "demount file system"  ""  "demount file system \(em \fLumount\fP"
.IX  "file system"  "unmount"  ""  "unmount \(em \fLumount\fP"
.IX  "file system"  "demount"  ""  "demount \(em \fLumount\fP"
.LP
.B mount
attaches a named
.I filesystem
to the file system hierarchy at the pathname location
.IR directory ,
which must already exist.
If
.I directory
has any contents prior to the
.B mount
operation, these remain hidden until the
.I filesystem
is once again unmounted.  If
.I filesystem
is of the form
.IB host : pathname\fR,
it is assumed to be an
.SM NFS
file system (type
.BR nfs ).
.LP
.B umount
unmounts a currently mounted file system, which can be specified
either as a
.IR directory
or a
.IR filesystem .
.LP
.B mount
and
.B umount
maintain a table of mounted file systems in
.BR /etc/mtab ,
described in
.BR fstab (5).
If invoked without an argument,
.B mount
displays the contents of this table. 
If invoked with either a
.I filesystem
or
.I directory
only,
.B mount
searches the file
.B /etc/fstab
for a matching entry, and mounts the file system indicated in
that entry on the indicated directory.
.LP
.B mount
also allows the creation of new, virtual file systems using
.BR "loopback mounts" .
Loopback file systems provide access to existing files using alternate
pathnames.
Once a virtual file system is created, other file systems can be
mounted within it without affecting the original file system.
File systems that are subsequently mounted onto
the original file system, however,
.B are
visible to the virtual file system, unless or until the corresponding
mount point in the virtual file system is covered by a file
system mounted there.
.LP
Recursive traversal of loopback mount points is not allowed;
after the loopback mount of
.BR /tmp/newroot ,
the file
.B /tmp/newroot/tmp/newroot
does not contain yet another file system hierarchy.
Rather, it appears just as
.B /tmp/newroot
did before the loopback mount was performed (say,
as an empty directory).
.LP
The standard
.SM RC
files first perform
.B 4.2
mounts, then
.B nfs
mounts, during booting.
On Sun386i systems,
.B lo
(loopback) mounts are performed just after
.B 4.2
mounts.
.B /etc/fstab
files depending on alternate mount orders at
boot time will
fail to work as expected.  Manual
modification of
.B /etc/rc.local
will be needed to make such
mount orders work.
.LP
See
.BR lofs (4S)
and
.BR fstab (5)
for more information and
.SM WARNINGS
about loopback mounts.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS mount
.TP
.B \-p
Print the list of mounted file systems in a format suitable for use in
.BR /etc/fstab .
.TP
.B \-a
All.  Attempt to mount all the file systems described in
.BR /etc/fstab .
If a
.I type
argument is specified with
.BR \-t ,
mount all file systems of that type.
Using
.BR \-a ,
.B mount
builds a dependency tree of mount points in
.BR /etc/fstab .
.B mount
will correctly mount these file systems
regardless of their order in
.BR /etc/fstab
(except loopback
mounts; see
.SM WARNINGS
below).
.TP
.B \-f
Fake an
.B /etc/mtab
entry, but do not actually mount any file systems.
.TP
.B \-n
Mount the file system without making an entry in
.BR /etc/mtab .
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose.
Display a message indicating each file system being mounted.
.br
.ne 4
.TP
.BI \-t " type"
Specify a file system type.
The accepted types are
.BR  4.2 ,
.BR nfs ,
.BR rfs ,
.BR lo ,
.BR hsfs ,
and
.BR tmp .
See
.BR fstab (5)
for a description of
.BR  4.2 ,
.BR  hsfs ,
and
.BR nfs ;
see
.BR lofs (4S)
for a description of
.BR lo ;
and see
.BR tmpfs (4)
for a description of
.BR tmp .
See 
.TX ADMIN 
for details on 
.BR rfs .
.TP
.B \-r
Mount the specified file system read-only, even if the entry in
.B /etc/fstab
specifies that it is to be mounted read-write.
.IP
Physically write-protected and magnetic-tape
file systems must be mounted
read-only. Otherwise errors occur when the system attempts to
update access times, even if no write operation is attempted.
.TP
.B \-d
Mount an 
.SM RFS
file system. This option provides compatibility
with the System V, Release 3 syntax for 
.SM RFS
mounts. Alternatively, the 
equivalent Sun syntax, 
.BR "\-t rfs" ,
may be used.
.TP
.BI \-o " options"
Specify file system
.IR options ,
a comma-separated list of words from the list below.
Some options are valid for all file system types, while others apply
to a specific type only.
.RS
.LP
.I options
valid on
.I all
file systems:
.RS
.TP 14
.BR rw \||\| ro
Read/write or read-only.
.PD 0
.TP
.BR suid \||\| nosuid
Setuid execution allowed or disallowed.
.TP
.B grpid
Create files with 
.SM BSD 
semantics for the propagation of
the group
.SM ID\s0.
Under this option, files inherit the 
.SM GID
of the directory in which they are created, regardless of the
directory's set-\s-1GID\s0 bit.
.br
.ne 8
.TP
.B noauto
Do not mount this file system that is currently mounted read-only.
If the file system is not currently mounted, an error results.
.TP
.B remount
If the file system is currently mounted, and if the entry in
.B /etc/fstab
specifies that it is to be mounted read-write or
.B rw
was specified along with
.BR remount ,
remount the file system making it read-write.
If the entry in
.B /etc/fstab
specifies that it is to be mounted read-only and
.B rw
was not specified, the file system is not remounted.
If the file system is currently mounted read-write,
specifying
.B ro
along with
.B remount
results in an error.
If the file system is not currently mounted, an error results.
.PD
.LP
The default is
.RB ` rw,\|suid '.
.RE
.LP
.I options
specific to
.B 4.2
file systems:
.RS
.TP 15
.BR quota \||\| noquota
Usage limits are enforced, or are not enforced.
The default is
.BR noquota .
.RE
.LP
.I options
specific to
.B nfs
(\s-1NFS\s0) file systems:
.RS
.TP 14
.BR bg \||\| fg
If the first attempt fails, retry in the background, or,
in the foreground.
.PD 0
.TP
.BR noquota
Prevent
.BR quota (1)
from checking whether the user is over quota on this file system;
if the file system has quotas enabled on the server, quotas will still
be checked for operations on this file system.
.TP
.BI retry= n
The number of times to retry the mount operation.
.TP
.BI rsize= n
Set the read buffer size to
.I n
bytes.
.TP
.BI wsize= n
Set the write buffer size to
.I n
bytes.
.TP
.BI timeo= n
Set the
.SM NFS
timeout to
.I n
tenths of a second.
.TP
.BI retrans= n
The number of
.SM NFS
retransmissions.
.TP
.BI port= n
The server
.SM IP
port number.
.TP
.BR soft \||\| hard
Return an error if the server does not respond, or continue the
retry request until the server responds.
.TP
.B intr
Allow keyboard interrupts on hard mounts.
.TP
.B secure
Use a more secure protocol for
.SM NFS
transactions.
.TP
.B posix
Request 
.SM POSIX.1
semantics for the file system.  Requires a mount version 2 
.BR mountd (8C)
on the server.
.TP
.BI acregmin= n
Hold cached attributes for at least
.I n
seconds after file modification.
.TP
.BI acregmax= n
Hold cached attributes for no more than
.I n
seconds after file modification.
.TP
.BI acdirmin= n
Hold cached attributes for at least
.I n
seconds after directory update.
.TP
.BI acdirmax= n
Hold cached attributes for no more than
.I n
seconds after directory update.
.TP
.BI actimeo= n
Set
.I min
and
.I max
times for regular files and directories to
.I n
seconds.
.TP
.B nocto
Suppress fresh attributes when opening a file.
.TP
.B noac
Suppress attribute and name (lookup) caching.
.PD
.LP
Regular defaults are:
.RS
.nf
.B fg,retry=10000,timeo=7,retrans=3,port=\s-1NFS_PORT\s0,hard,\e
.B acregmin=3,acregmax=60,acdirmin=30,acdirmax=60
.fi
.RE
.LP
.B actimeo
has no default; it sets 
.BR acregmin ,
.BR acregmax ,
.B acdirmin 
and
.B acdirmax
.LP
Defaults for
.B rsize
and
.B wsize
are set internally by the system kernel.
.RE
.LP
.I options
specific to
.B rfs
(\fB\s-1RFS\s0\fP)
file systems:
.RS
.TP 14
.BR bg \||\| fg
If the first attempt fails, retry in the background, or,
in the foreground.
.PD 0
.TP
.BI retry= n
The number of times to retry the mount operation.
.PD
.LP
Defaults are the same as for
.SM NFS\s0.
.PD
.RE
.LP
.I options
specific to
.B hsfs
(\fB\s-1HSFS\s0\fP)
file systems:
.RS
.TP 14
.BR norrip
Disable processing of Rock Ridge extensions for the file system.
.PD 
.LP
.RE
.RE
.SS umount
.TP
.BI \-h " host"
Unmount all file systems listed in
.B /etc/mtab
that are remote-mounted from
.IR host .
.TP
.BI \-t " type"
Unmount all file systems listed in
.B /etc/mtab
that are of a given
.IR type .
.TP
.B \-a
Unmount all file systems currently mounted (as listed in
.BR /etc/mtab ).
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose.
Display a message indicating each file system being unmounted.
.TP
.B \-d
Unmount an
.SM RFS
file system.
This option provides compatibility with the
System V, Release 3 syntax for unmounting an
.SM RFS
file system.
.SH NFS FILESYSTEMS
.SS Background vs. Foreground
.LP
Filesystems mounted with the
.B bg
option indicate that
.B mount
is to retry in the background if the server's mount daemon
.BR ( mountd (8C))
does not respond.
.B mount
retries the request up to the count specified in the
.BI retry= n
option.  Once the file system is mounted, each
.SM NFS
request made in the kernel waits
.BI timeo= n
tenths of a second for a response.
If no response arrives, the
time-out is multiplied by
.B 2
and the request is retransmitted.
When the number of
retransmissions has reached the number specified in the
.BI retrans= n
option, a file system mounted with the
.B soft
option returns an error on the request; one mounted with the
.B hard
option prints a warning message and continues to retry the request.
.SS Read-Write vs. Read-Only
.LP
File systems that are mounted
.B rw
(read-write) should use the
.B hard
option.
.SS "Interrupting Processes With Pending \s-1NFS\s0 Requests"
.LP
The
.B intr
option allows keyboard interrupts to kill a process that is hung
while waiting for a response on a hard-mounted file system.
.br
.ne 10
.SS Quotas
.LP
Quota checking on
.SM NFS
file systems is performed by the server, not the client; if the file
system has the
.B quota
option on the server, quota checking is performed for both local
requests and
.SM NFS
requests.  When a user logs in,
.BR login (1)
runs the
.BR quota (1)
program to check whether the user is over their quota on any of the file
systems mounted on the machine.  This check is performed for
.SM NFS
file systems by an
.SM RPC
call to the
.BR rquotad (8C)
server on the machine from which the file system is mounted.  This can
be time-consuming, especially if the remote machine is down.  If the
.B noquota
option is specified for an
.SM NFS
file system,
.B quota
will not check whether the user is over their quota on that file system,
which can speed up the process of logging in.  This does
.I not
disable quota checking for operations on that file system; it merely
disables reporting whether the user is over quota on that file system.
.SS Secure Filesystems
.LP
The
.B secure
option must be given if the server requires secure
mounting for the file system.
.SS "File Attributes"
.LP
The attribute cache retains file attributes on the client.
Attributes for a file are assigned a time to be flushed. 
If the file is modified before the flush time, then the
flush time is extended by the time since the last modification
(under the assumption that files that changed recently are likely
to change soon).
There is a minimum and maximum flush time extension for
regular files and for directories.
Setting
.BI actimeo= n
extends flush time by
.I n
seconds for both regular files and directories.
.SH SYSTEM V COMPATIBILITY
.SS "System V File-Creation Semantics"
.LP
Ordinarily, when a file is created its 
.SM GID
is set to the effective 
.SM GID
of the calling process.
This behavior may be overridden on a per-directory basis,
by setting the set-\s-1GID\s0 bit of the parent directory;
in this case, the 
.SM GID
is set to the 
.SM GID
of the parent directory (see
.BR open (2V)
and
.BR mkdir (2V)).
Files created on file systems that are mounted with the
.B grpid
option will obey 
.SM BSD 
semantics;
that is, the 
.SM GID
is unconditionally inherited from that of the parent directory.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
To mount a local disk:
.B mount /dev/xy0g /usr
.TP
To fake an entry for \fBnd\fP root:
.B mount \-ft 4.2 /dev/nd0 /
.TP
To mount all 4.2 file systems:
.B mount \-at 4.2
.TP
To mount a remote file system:
.B mount \-t nfs serv:/usr/src /usr/src
.TP
To mount a remote file system:
.B mount serv:/usr/src /usr/src
.TP
To hard mount a remote file system:
.B mount \-o hard serv:/usr/src /usr/src
.br
.ne 2
.TP
To mount an \s-1RFS\s0 remote file system, retrying in the background on failure:
.B mount \-d \-o bg \s-1SRC\s0 /usr/src
.TP
To mount an \s-1RFS\s0 remote file system read-only:
.B mount \-t rfs \-r \s-1SRC\s0 /usr/src
.TP
To save current mount state:
.B mount \-p > /etc/fstab
.IP
Note: this is not recommended when running the automounter,
see
.BR automount (8).
.TP
To loopback mount file systems:
.B mount \-t lo /export/tmp/localhost /tmp
.nf
.B mount \-t lo /export/var/localhost /var lo
.B mount \-t lo /export/cluster/sun386.sunos4.0.1 /usr/cluster
.B mount \-t lo /export/local/sun386 /usr/local
.fi
.RE
.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/mtab
table of mounted file systems
.TP
.B /etc/fstab
table of file systems mounted at boot
.PD
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
.BR mount
does not understand the mount order dependencies
involved in loopback mounting.
Loopback mounts may be dependent on
two mounts having been previously performed,
while
.B nfs
and
.B 4.2
mounts are dependent only on
a single previous mount.  As a rule of
thumb, place loopback mounts at the end of the
.BR /etc/fstab
file.
See
.BR lofs (4S)
for a complete description.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mkdir (2V),
.BR mount (2V),
.BR open (2V),
.BR unmount (2V),
.BR lofs (4S),
.BR fstab (5),
.BR mtab (5),
.BR automount (8),
.BR mountd (8C),
.BR nfsd (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Mounting file systems full of garbage crashes the system.
.LP
If the directory on which a file system is to be mounted is a
symbolic link, the file system is mounted on
.I "the directory to which the symbolic link refers,"
rather than being mounted on top of the symbolic link itself.
