.\" @(#)named.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH NAMED 8C "30 June 1989"
.SH NAME
named, in.named \- Internet domain name server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/in.named
.RB [ " \-d "
.IR level " ]"
.RB [ " \-p "
.IR port " ]"
.RB [\|[ \|\-b\| \|]
.IR bootfile " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "named command"  ""  "\fLnamed\fP \(em internet domain name server daemon"
.IX  servers  named  ""  "\fLnamed\fP \(em internet domain name server daemon"
.B named
is the Internet domain name server.
It is used by resolver libraries to provide access
to the Internet distributed naming database.
The domain name server is described in the
.TX ADMIN .
See
.SM RFC
1034 and
.SM RFC
1035 for more details.
With no arguments
.B named
reads
.B /etc/named.boot
for any initial data, and listens for queries on a privileged port.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d " level"
Print debugging information.
.I level
is a number indicating the level of messages printed.
.TP
.BI \-p " port"
Use 
.I port
as the port number, rather than the standard port number.
.TP
.BI \-b " bootfile"
Use
.I bootfile
rather than
.BR /etc/named.boot .
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.nf
.ft B
.\" Unfortunately, this is how you have to set tabs every 8 spaces
.ta +8u*\w'\0'u +8u*\w'\0'u +8u*\w'\0'u +8u*\w'\0'u
;
;	boot file for name server
;
; type		domain		source file or host
;
primary		berkeley.edu    named.db
secondary	cc.berkeley.edu 10.2.0.78 128.32.0.10
cache		.               named.ca
.DT
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.LP
The
.B primary
line states that the file
.B named.db
contains authoritative data for
.BR berkeley.edu .
The file
.B named.db
contains data in the master file format, described in
.SM RFC
1035, except
that all domain names are relative to the origin; in this
case,
.B berkeley.edu
(see below for a more detailed description).
.LP
The
.B secondary
line specifies that all authoritative data
under
.B cc.berkeley.edu
is to be transferred from the name server
at
.BR 10.2.0.78 .
If the transfer fails it will try
.BR 128.32.0.10 ,
and continue for up to 10 tries at that address.
The secondary copy is also authoritative for the domain.
.LP
The
.B cache
line specifies that data in
.B named.ca
is to be placed in
the cache (only used to find the root domain servers).  The file
.B named.ca
is in the same format as
.BR named.db .
.LP
The master file consists of entries of the form:
.RS
.BI "$\s-1INCLUDE\s0 <" filename >
.br
.BI "$\s-1ORIGIN\s0 <" domain >
.br
.BI < domain >
.BI < opt_ttl >
.BI < opt_class >
.BI < type > 
.BI < resource_record_data >
.br
.RE
where
.I domain
is
.RB ` . '
for the root,
.RB ` @ '
for the current origin, or a standard domain name.  If
.I domain
is a standard domain name that does not end with
.RB ` . ',
the current origin
is appended to the domain.  Domain names ending with
.RB ` . '
are unmodified.
.LP
The
.I opt_ttl
field is an optional integer number for the time-to-live field.
It defaults to zero.
.LP
The
.I opt_class
field is currently one token,
.RB ` \s-1IN\s0 '
for the Internet.
.LP
The
.I type
field is one of the following tokens; the data expected in the
.I resource_record_data
field is in parentheses.
.TP
.B A
A host address (dotted quad).
.TP
.SB NS
An authoritative name server (domain).
.TP
.SB MX
A mail exchanger (domain).
.TP
.SB CNAME
The canonical name for an alias (domain).
.TP
.SB SOA
Marks the start of a zone of authority (5 numbers).
(see
.SM RFC
1035)).
.TP
.SB MB
A mailbox domain name (domain).
.TP
.SB MG
A mail group member (domain).
.TP
.SB MR
A mail rename domain name (domain).
.TP
.SB NULL
A null resource record (no format or data).
.TP
.SB WKS
A well know service description (not implemented yet).
.TP
.SB PTR
A domain name pointer (domain).
.TP
.SB HINFO
Host information (cpu_type OS_type).
.TP
.SB MINFO
Mailbox or mail list information (request_domain error_domain).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/named.boot
name server configuration boot file
.TP
.B /etc/named.pid
the process
.SM ID
.TP
.B /var/tmp/named.run
debug output
.TP
.B /var/tmp/named_dump.db
dump of the name servers database
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR kill (1),
.BR signal (3V),
.BR resolver (3),
.BR resolv.conf (5),
.BR nslookup (8C)
.LP
.TX ADMIN
.LP
Mockapetris, Paul,
.IR "Domain Names - Concepts and Facilities" ,
.SM RFC
1034,
Network Information Center,
.SM SRI
International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
November 1987.
.LP
Mockapetris, Paul,
.IR "Domain Names - Implementation and Specification" ,
.SM RFC
1035,
Network Information Center,
.SM SRI
International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
November 1987.
.LP
Mockapetris, Paul,
.IR "Domain System Changes and Observations" ,
.SM RFC
973,
Network Information Center,
.SM SRI
International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
January 1986.
.LP
Partridge, Craig,
.IR "Mail Routing and the Domain System" ,
.SM RFC
974,
Network Information Center,
.SM SRI
International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
January 1986.
.SH NOTES
The following signals have the specified effect when sent to the
server process using the
.BR kill (1)
command.
.TP \w'SIGQUIT'u
.SB SIGHUP
Causes server to read named.boot and reload database.
.TP
.SB SIGINT
Dumps current data base and cache to
.BR /var/tmp/named_dump.db .
.TP
.SB SIGUSR1
Turns on debugging; each subsequent
.SB SIGUSR1
increments debug level.
.TP
.SB SIGUSR2
Turns off debugging completely.
