.\" @(#)ndbootd.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH NDBOOTD 8C  "10 September 1986"
.SH NAME
ndbootd \- ND boot block server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ndbootd
[
.B \-dv
] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "ndbootd daemon" "" "\fLndbootd\fP daemon"
.LP
.B ndbootd
sends boot blocks to diskless Sun-2 system clients that
request them using the (now obsolete)
.SM ND
protocol.  This server
uses the boot block contained in the file
.BR /tftpboot/sun2.bb .
A client must appear in the
.BR ethers (5)
and
.BR hosts (5)
databases, in order for the request to be served.
In determining whether to serve the client,
.B ndbootd
checks the
.B /tftpboot
directory for a file whose
name is the client's
.SM IP
address in hexadecimal notation.
For example, if the file
.B /tftpboot/C00901\s-1AD\s0
exists, the machine at
.SM IP
address 192.9.1.173 can be served.  This file
normally contains the boot program that is sent to the client by
.BR tftpd (8C).
.LP
Only root can invoke
.BR ndbootd .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Debug.  Display information about ignored packets, retransmissions,
and address translation.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose.  Show a detailed listing of packets sent and received, etc.
.LP
If either option is used, all output is sent to the invoking
terminal.  Otherwise, error output (if any) appears on the console.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /tftpboot
bootfiles directory
.TP
.B /tftpboot/sun2.bb
boot blocks
.TP
.B /tftpboot/????????
boot programs for clients
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ethers (5),
.BR hosts (5),
.BR boot (8S),
.BR tftpd (8C)
