.\" @(#)netconfig.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; 
.TH NETCONFIG 8C "19 February 1988"
.SH NAME
netconfig \- PNP boot service
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.B /single/netconfig 
[
.B \-e 
]
[
.B \-n
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "netconfig" "" "\fLnetconfig\fP \(em pnp diskful boot service"
.LP
.B netconfig
is used both for automatic installation of new diskful systems, 
and during routine booting of all
systems.  The sequence of actions taken by 
.B netconfig
depends on which of these situations is in effect, but
it always sets the hostname, domainname, time, timezone, and interface
IP address. If the system is newly installed on the network, it does more,
perhaps interrogating the user about system configuration.
.LP
.B netconfig
is invoked with the
.B \-e
option from the 
.B /etc/rc.boot
script.
.LP
Invoked without options, 
.B netconfig
may perform 
.SM PNP 
set up, including set up of files, passwords, and secure
.SM RPC\s0s.
Unless 
.B \-n 
is specified, it writes 
.BR /etc/net.conf ,
which is read later by
.BR rc.boot . 
This includes the 
.SB VERBOSE 
flag, derived from 
.SB NVRAM
data, which controls the verbosity of the commands in
.BR rc.boot . 
.SS "Routine Booting"
.LP
Boot servers use information stored locally in
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
acquiring it over the network, except that they get the time from the
.I timehost
system if it is up.
The following describes the steps taken by boot clients:
diskful clients, diskless clients, and network clients.
.LP
Boot clients first invoke
.B rarp
to acquire an
.SM IP 
address.  This is followed by a
.SB ICMP
.B Netmask
request to obtain the
.SM IP
subnetwork mask, and then a
.SB PNP_WHOAMI
.SM RPC
to determine the system's name,
.SM NIS
domain, and time zone.  
Then the systems clock is set using the
.SM RFC
868 time service.
If
.SB PNP_WHOAMI
fails, a 
.SB PNP_SETUP
sequence is followed by set up of 
.B /etc/passwd
and other files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e
Check shell environment variables.
This option is specified during routine boot.  
.SB HOSTNAME
and 
.SB DOMAINNAME
are used to determine if the system
is an
.SM NIS
server using local 
.SM NIS
maps. Otherwise, if 
.SB NETWORKED 
is
.BR \s-1YES\s0 , 
.B netconfig
probes the network for network configuration. 
.SB MUST_SETUP
requires writing
.B /etc/passwd
and other files for setup in restricted network environments.
.TP
.B \-n
Used in conjunction with 
.RB ` \-e ',
this does not probe the
network for anything but just sets the hostname and domainname
of the system from the environment variables
.SB HOSTNAME
and
.SB DOMAINNAME
respectively.  Does not write the 
.B /etc/net.conf 
file.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.B /var/yp/\fIdomainname\fP/netmasks
.TP
.B /var/yp/\fIdomainname\fP/hosts
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pnp (3R),
.BR pnpboot (8C),
.BR pnpd (8C),
.BR rarpd (8C)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
