.\" @(#)newfs.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH NEWFS 8 "5 July 1990"
.SH NAME
newfs \- create a new file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/newfs
[
.B \-Nv
] [
.I mkfs-options
]
.I raw-special-device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "newfs command"  ""  "\fLnewfs\fP \(em make new file system"
.IX  make "new file system \(em \fLnewfs\fP"
.IX  "create" "new file system \(em \fLnewfs\fP"
.IX  "file system"  "create new"  ""  "create new \(em \fLnewfs\fP"
.LP
.B newfs
is a \*(lqfriendly\*(rq front-end to the
.BR mkfs (8)
program.
On Sun systems, the disk type is
determined by reading the disk label for the specified
.IR raw-special-device .
.LP
.I raw-special-device
is the name of a raw special device residing in
.BR /dev ,
including the disk partition,
where you want the new file system to be created.
If you want to make a file system on
.BR sd0[a-h] ,
specify
.BR sd0[a-h] ,
.B rsd0[a-h]
or
.BR /dev/rsd0[a-h] ;
if you only specify
.BR sd0[a-h] ,
.B newfs
will find the proper device.
.LP
.B newfs
then calculates the appropriate parameters to use in calling
.BR mkfs ,
and builds the file system by forking
.BR mkfs .
.LP
You must be super-user to use this command.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP
.B \-N
Print out the file system parameters
without actually creating the file system.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose.
.B newfs
prints out its actions,
including the parameters passed to
.BR mkfs .
.TP
.I mkfs-options
Options that override the default parameters passed to
.BR mkfs (8)
are:
.RS
.TP
.BI \-a " apc"
Number of alternates per cylinder 
(\s-1SCSI\s0 devices only).
.TP
.BI \-b " block-size"
The block size of the file system in bytes.
The default is 
.BR 8192 .
.TP
.BI \-C " maxcontig
The maximum number of blocks, belonging to one file, that will be
allocated contiguously before inserting a rotational delay.
The default varies from drive to drive.  Drives without internal buffers
(or drives/controllers that don't advertise the existence of an internal buffer)
default to
.BR 1 .
Drives with buffers default to
.BR 7 .
.br
.ne 5
.sp
This parameter is limited in the following way:
.sp
.ti +4
\fIblocksize\fR * \fImaxcontig\fR must be <= \fImaxphys\fR
.sp
.I maxphys
is a read-only
kernel variable that specifies the maximum block transfer size (in bytes) that 
the I/O subsystem is capable of satisfying.  (This limit is enforced by 
.BR mount (2),
not by 
.B newfs
or 
.BR mkfs .)
.sp
.BR Note :
This parameter also controls
clustering.  Regardless of  the  value of
.IR rotdelay ,
clustering is enabled only when
.I maxcontig
is greater than 1.
Clustering allows higher I/O rates for sequential
I/O and is described in
.BR tunefs (8).
.TP
.BI \-c " #cylinders/group"
The number of cylinders per cylinder group in a file system.
The default is
.BR 16 .
.TP
.BI \-d " rotdelay"
This specifies the expected time (in milliseconds)
to service a transfer completion
interrupt and initiate a new transfer on the same disk.
It is used to decide how much rotational spacing to place between
successive clusters/blocks in a file.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.BI \-f " frag-size"
The fragment size of the file system in bytes.
The default is
.BR 1024 .
.TP
.BI \-i " bytes/inode"
This specifies the density of inodes in the file system.
The default is to create an inode for each 2048 bytes of data space.
If fewer inodes are desired, a larger number should be used;
to create more inodes a smaller number should be given.
.TP
.BI \-m " free-space%"
The percentage of space reserved from normal users; the minimum
free space threshold.
The default is
.BR 10% .
.TP
.BI \-o " optimization"
.RB ( space
or
.BR time ).
The file system can either be instructed to try to minimize the time spent
allocating blocks, or to try to minimize the space fragmentation on the disk.
If the minimum free space threshold (as specified by the
.B \-m
option) is less than 10%,
the default is to optimize for
.BR space ;
if the minimum free space threshold is greater than or equal to 10%,
the default is to optimize for
.BR time .
.TP
.BI \-r " revolutions/minute"
The speed of the disk in revolutions per minute (frequently 3600).
.TP
.BI \-s " size"
The size of the file system in sectors.
.br
.ne 8
.TP
.BI \-t " #tracks/cylinder"
The number of tracks per cylinders on the disk.
The default is
.BR 16 .
.TP
.BI \-n " #rotational-positions"
The number of distinguished rotational positions.
The default is
.BR 8 . 
.RE
.br
.ne 12
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following example verbosely displays the parameters
for the raw special device,
.BR sd0a ,
but does not actually create a new file system:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
example% \ /usr/etc/newfs \-vN sd0a
mkfs \-N /dev/rsd0a 16048 34 8 8192 1024 16 10 60 2048 t 0 -1 8 -1
/dev/rsd0a:	16048 sectors in 59 cylinders of 8 tracks, 34 sectors
	8.2Mb in 4 cyl groups (16 c/g, 2.23Mb/g, 896 i/g)
super-block backups (for fsck \-b#) at:
\ 32, 4432, 8832, 13232,
example%
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fs (5),
.BR fsck (8),
.BR installboot (8S),
.BR mkfs (8),
.BR tunefs (8)
.LP
.TX ADMIN
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.BI "newfs: " special " No such file or directory"
The device specified does not exist, or a disk partition was not
specified.
.TP
.IB special ": cannot open"
You must be super-user to use this command.
.SH NOTES
.LP
To install the bootstrap programs for a root partition,
run
.BR installboot (8S)
after
.BR newfs .
