.\" @(#)nfsstat.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH NFSSTAT 8C "7 October 1990"
.SH NAME
nfsstat \- Network File System statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nfsstat
[
.B \-cmnrsz
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
This program is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "nfsstat command"  ""  "\fLnfsstat\fP \(em display network statistics"
.IX  "NFS statistics, display \(em \fLnfsstat\fP"
.IX  "statistics of NFS, display \(em \fLnfsstat\fP"
.B nfsstat
displays statistical information about the
.SM NFS
(Network File System) and
.SM RPC
(Remote Procedure Call), interfaces to the kernel.
It can also be used to reinitialize this information.
If no options are given the default is
.IP
.B nfsstat \-cnrs
.LP
That is, display everything, but reinitialize nothing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
Display client information.
Only the client side
.SM NFS
and
.SM RPC
information will be printed.
Can be combined with the
.B \-n
and
.B \-r
options to print client
.SM NFS
or client
.SM RPC
information only.
.TP
.B \-m
Display statistics for each
.SM NFS
mounted file system.
This includes the server name and address, 
mount flags, current read and write sizes, the
retransmission count, and the timers used for
dynamic retransmission.
The
.B srtt
value contains the smoothed round trip time, the
.B dev
value contains the estimated deviation,
and the 
.B cur
value is the current backed-off retransmission value.
.TP
.B \-n
Display
.SM NFS
information.
.SM NFS
information for both the client and server side will be printed.
Can be combined with the
.B \-c
and
.B \-s
options to print client or server
.SM NFS
information only.
.TP
.B \-r
Display
.SM RPC
information.
.TP
.B \-s
Display server information.
.TP
.B \-z
Zero (reinitialize) statistics.
This option is for use by the super-user only, and
can be combined with any of the above options to
zero particular sets of statistics after printing them.
.SH DISPLAYS
.LP
The server
.SM RPC
display includes the following fields:
.RS
.TP 10
.B calls
.PD 0
The total number of
.SM RPC
calls received.
.PD
.TP
.B badcalls
The total number of calls rejected by the
.SM RPC
layer (the sum of
.B badlen
and
.B xdrcall
as defined below).
.TP
.B nullrecv
The number of times an
.SM RPC
call was not available when it was thought to be received.
.TP
.B badlen
The number of
.SM RPC
calls with a length shorter than a minimum-sized
.SM RPC
call.
.TP
.B xdrcall
The number of 
.SM RPC
calls whose header could not be
.SM XDR
decoded.
.RE
.LP
The server
.SM NFS
display shows the number of 
.SM NFS
calls received 
.RB ( calls )
and rejected
.RB ( badcalls ),
and the counts and percentages for the various calls that were
made.
.LP
The client 
.SM RPC
display includes the following fields:
.RS
.TP 10
.B calls
.PD 0
The total number of 
.SM RPC
calls made.
.TP
.B badcalls
The total number of calls rejected by the
.SM RPC
layer.
.TP
.B retrans
The number of times a call had to be retransmitted
due to a timeout while waiting for a reply from the server.
.TP
.B badxid
The number of times a reply from a server was received which did
not correspond to any outstanding call.
.TP
.B timeout
The number of times a call timed out while waiting for a reply from the
server.
.TP
.B wait
The number of times a call had to wait because no client handle was
avaiable.
.TP
.B newcred
The number of times authentication information had to be refreshed.
.TP
.B timers
The number of times the calculated time-out value was greater than
or equal to the minimum specified time-out value for a call.
.PD
.RE
.LP
The client
.SM NFS
display shows the number of calls sent and rejected, as well
as the number of times a
.SB CLIENT
handle was received
.RB ( nclget ),
the number of times a call had to sleep while awaiting a
handle
.RB ( nclsleep ),
as well as a count of the various calls and their respective
percentages.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /vmunix
system namelist
.TP
.B /dev/kmem
kernel memory
.PD
