.\" @(#)nlsadmin.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH NLSADMIN 8 "1 November 1988"
.SH NAME
listen, nlsadmin \- network listener service administration for RFS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nlsadmin
[
.B \-mx
]
[
.B \-edr
.I "service_code net_spec"
]
[
.B \-ikqsv
.I net_spec
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.B \-lt
.I "addr net_spec"
]
[
.B \-a
.I service_code
[
.B \-p
.I modules
]
.B \-c
.I command
.B \-y
.I "comment net_spec"
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.B \-qz
.I "code net_spec"
]
[
.B \-z
.I "code net_spec"
]
[
.I net_spec
]
.LP
.B /usr/etc/listen
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I \s-1RFS\s0
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "listen network" "" "\fLlisten\fP \(em network listener service administration" ""
.IX "nlsadmin network" "" "\fLnlsadmin\fP \(em network listener service administration" ""
.IX network "listener service administration"
.IX configure "network listener server"
.IX initiate "network listener server"
.IX terminate "network listener server"
.IX stop "network listener server"
.IX RFS "network listener server" "\s-1RFS\s0" "network listener server" 
.LP
.B nlsadmin
configures, initiates and terminates network listener
.RB ( listen )
servers for the local host.  Each network (transport provider)
has an associated
.B listen
daemon to service it locally.  The
.B listen
daemon for each is configured separately.
A
.B listen
daemon accepts network service requests when they arrive,
and spawns servers in response to those requests.
It can be used on any network (transport provider) that conforms to the
transport provider specification.
.\".LP
.\"The listener process supports two classes of service:  a general
.\"listener service for remote proceses, and a terminal login
.\"service, for terminals connected directly to a network.
.\".LP
.\"The direct terminal service requires special associated software,
.\"and is only available with some networks (for example, the
.\".SM "AT&T STARLAN"
.\"network).
.LP
.B nlsadmin
can also report on the listener processes on a
machine, either individually (per network) or collectively.
.LP
Changing the list of services provided by the listener produces
immediate changes, while changing an address on which the listener listens
has no effect until the listener is restarted.
.LP
.B nlsadmin
without any options gives a brief usage message.
.TP
.SH OPTIONS
The
.I net_spec 
argument to
.B nlsadmin
refers to a particular
.B listen
daemon.  Specifically,
.I net_spec 
is the relative path name of the entry under
.B /dev 
for a given network.
.TP 15 
.B \-x
Report the status of all of the listener processes installed on this
machine.
.TP
.BI \-e " service_code net_spec"
.br
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-d " service_code net_spec"
.br
.PD
Enable or disable, respectively, the service indicated by
.I service_code 
for the specified network.
The service must have previously been added to the listener for that
network (see the
.B \-a 
option).
When a listener is disabled, processes serving prior requests
continue until they complete.
.TP
.BI \-r " service_code net_spec"
Remove the entry for the
.I service_code 
from that listener's list of services.
.TP
.BI \-i " net_spec"
Initialize or change a listener process for the network specified by
.IR net_spec .
That is, create and initialize the files required by the listener.
Initializing a listener with this option does not start it running.
The listener must be initialized before assigning addressing or services.
Note: the listener should only be initialized once for a given network.
.TP
.BI \-q " net_spec"
Query the status of the listener process for the specified
network.
If the listener process is active,
.B nlsadmin 
exits with a status of 0. 
If no such process is active, the exit code is 1.
The exit code will be greater than 1 if there is an error.
.TP
.BI \-s " net_spec"
.br
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-k " net_spec"
.br
.PD
Start or kill, respectively, the listener process for the
indicated network.
When a listener is killed, processes that are still running as a result
of prior service requests will continue unaffected.
The listener runs under its own 
.SM ID 
of
.B listen 
with group ID (\s-1GID\s+1)
.BR adm .
This 
.SM GID 
appear in the system password file
.BR /etc/passwd ;
the
.SB HOME
directory listed for the 
.SM GID 
is concatenated with 
.I net_spec 
to determine the location of the listener 
configuration information for each network.
.IP
.B nlsadmin 
may be invoked by any user to generate 
reports, but all operations that affect 
a listener's status or configuration are
restricted to the super-user.
.TP
.BI \-v " net_spec"
Verbose.  Report on the servers associated with
.IR net_spec , 
giving the service code, status, command, and comment for each.
.HP
.BI \-l " addr net_spec"
Change or set the address for the general listener service.
This is the address generally used by remote processes to access
the servers available through the listener (see the
.B \-a 
option).
.I addr 
is the transport address on which to listen,
and is interpreted using a syntax that allows for a
variety of address formats.  By default
.I addr 
is interpreted as the symbolic 
.SM ASCII 
representation of the transport address.  An
.I addr 
preceded by a
.RB ` \ex '
(\s-1BACKSLASH-X\s0)
lets you enter an address in hexadecimal notation.  
Note: 
.I addr 
must be quoted if it contains any blanks.  If
.I addr 
is just a dash 
.RB (` \(em '),
.B nlsadmin 
merely reports the currently configured address.
.IP
A change of address does not take effect until the next time the
listener for that network is started.
.TP
.BI \-t " addr net_spec"
Change or set the address on which the listener listens for requests for
terminal service. Otherwise, this is similar to
.BR \-l  .
A terminal service address should not be defined unless the appropriate
remote login software is available; if such software is available, it
must be configured as service code 
.B 1 
(see the
.B \-a 
option).
.HP
.RB [ \-m ] 
.B \-a
.I service_code 
.\"[
.\".B \-p
.\".I modules
.\"]
.B \-c
.I  cmd
.B \-y
.I comment
.I net_spec
.br
Add a new service to the list of services available through the
indicated listener.
.I service_code 
is the code for the service,
.I cmd
is the command to be invoked in response to that service code, comprised of
the full path name of the server and its arguments, and
.I comment 
is a brief (free-form) description of the service for use in various
reports.  Note: 
.I cmd 
must be quoted if it contains arguments for the server.
Similarly, 
.I comment 
must also be quoted, so as to appear to be a single word to the shell.
When a service is added, it is initially enabled (see the
.B \-e 
and
.B \-d 
options).
.IP
If the
.B \-m 
option is specified, the entry is marked as an administrative entry.
Service codes 
.B 1 
through 
.B 100 
are reserved for administrative
entries, which are those that require special handling internally.
In particular, code 
.B 1 
is assigned to the remote login service,
which is the service automatically invoked for 
connections to the terminal login address.
.\".IP
.\"If the
.\".B \-p 
.\"option is specified, then
.\".I modules 
.\"will be interpreted as a list of 
.\".SM STREAMS 
.\"modules for the listener to push before starting the service
.\"being added.  The modules are pushed in the order they are specified.
.\".I modules
.\"should be a comma-separated list of modules, with no white space
.\"included.  This option is only available with 
.\".SM UNIX 
.\"System V Release 3.0.
.br
.ne 7
.IP
A service must explicitly be added to the listener for each network on
which that service is to be available.
This operation is normally performed only when the service is
installed on a machine, or when populating the list of services for a
new network.
.TP
.BI \-qz " code net_spec"
Query the status of the service with service code
.I code 
on network
.IR net_spec , 
Exit with a status of 0 if the service is enabled, 1
if the service is disabled, or greater than 1 on error.
.TP
.BI \-z " code net_spec"
 Print a report on the server associated with
.I net_spec 
that has service code
.IR code , 
giving the same information as in the
.B \-v
option.
.TP
.I net_spec
Print the status of the listener process for
.I net_spec.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the command is not run under the proper 
.SM ID\s0,
an error message is sent
to the standard error, and the command terminates.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/etc/listen
.TP
.BI /usr/net/nls/ net_spec
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TX NETP
