.\" @(#)nslookup.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH NSLOOKUP 8C "30 June 1989"
.SH NAME
nslookup \- query domain name servers interactively
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nslookup
[
.B \-l
] [
.I address
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "nslookup command" "" "\fLnslookup\fP command"
.B nslookup
is an interactive program to query
Internet domain name servers. The user can contact servers to
request information about a specific host or print
a list of hosts in the domain.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 9
.B \-l
Use the local host's name server instead of the servers in
.BR /etc/resolv.conf .
(If
.B /etc/resolv.conf
does not exist or does not contain server information, the
.B \-l
option does not have any effect).
.TP 9
.I address
Use the name server on the host machine
with the given Internet address.
.SH USAGE
.SS Overview
The Internet domain name-space is tree-structured, with 
top-level domains such as:
.RS
.TP
.SB COM
commercial establishments
.PD 0
.TP
.SB EDU
educational institutions
.TP
.SB GOV
government agencies
.TP
.SB MIL
.SB MILNET
hosts
.PD
.RE
.LP
If you are looking for a specific host,
you need to know something about the host's organization
in order to determine the top-level domain it belongs to.
For instance, if you want to find the Internet address of a machine at
.SM UCLA\s0,
do the following:
.TP
\(bu
Connect with the root server using the
.B root
command.
The root server of the name space has knowledge of the top-level
domains.
.TP
\(bu
Since
.SM UCLA
is a university, its domain name is
.BR ucla.edu .
Connect with a server for the
.B ucla.edu
domain with the command
.BR server ucla.edu .
The response will print
the names of hosts that act as servers for that domain.
Note: the root server does not have information about
.BR ucla.edu ,
but knows the names and addresses of hosts that do.
Once located by the root server,
all future queries will be sent to the
.SM UCLA
name server.
.TP
\(bu
To request information about a particular host in the domain
(for instance,
.BR locus ),
just type the host name.
To request a listing of hosts in the
.SM UCLA
domain, use the
.B ls
command.
The
.B ls
command requires a domain name (in this case,
.BR ucla.edu )
as an argument.
.LP
Note: if you are connected with a name server that handles
more than one domain, all lookups for
host names must be fully specified with its domain.
For instance, the domain
.B harvard.edu
is served by
.BR seismo.css.gov ,
which also services the
.B css.gov
and
.B cornell.edu
domains. A lookup request for the host
.B aiken
in the
.B harvard.edu
domain must be specified as
.BR aiken.harvard.edu .
However, the
.IP
.BI set " domain" =\|name
.LP
and
.IP
.B set defname
.LP
commands can be used to automatically
append a domain name to each request.
.LP
After a successful lookup of a host, use the
.B finger
command to
see who is on the system, or to finger a specific person.
To get other information about the host, use the
.IP
.BI set " querytype" =\|value
.LP
command to change the type of information desired and request another
lookup.
.RB ( finger
requires the type to be A.)
.SS Commands
Commands may be interrupted at any time by typing
\s-1CTRL-C\s0.
To exit, type
.SM CTRL-D
(EOF).
The command line length must be less than 80 characters.
Note: an unrecognized command will be interpreted as a host name.
.TP
\fIhost\fP [\fIserver\fP]
Look up information for
.I host
using the current default server or using
.I server
if it is specified.
.
.ne 5
.TP
.BI server " domain"
.ns
.TP
.BI lserver " domain"
Change the default server to
.IR domain .
.B lserver
uses the initial server to look up
information about
.I domain
while
.B server
uses the current default server.
If an authoritative answer can't be found, the names of servers
that might have the answer are returned.
.
.TP
.B root
Changes the default server to the server
for the root of the domain name space.
Currently, the host
.B sri-nic.arpa
is used; this command is a synonym for
.RB ` "lserver sri-nic.arpa" '.)
The name of the root server can be changed with the
.B set root
command.
.
.TP
.BI "finger [ " name ]
Connect with the finger server on the current host, which
is defined by a previous successful lookup for a host's
address information (see the
.BI set " querytype" =\|A
command).
As with the shell, output can be redirected to a named file
using
.B >
and
.BR >> .
.
.TP \fIdomain\fR
"\fBls \fR[\fB\-ah\fR]
List the information available for
.IR domain .
The default output contains host names
and their Internet addresses.  The
.B \-a
option lists aliases of hosts in the domain.  The
.B \-h
option lists
.SM CPU
and operating system information for the domain.
As with the shell, output can be redirected to a named file
using
.B >
and
.BR >> .
When output is directed to a file, hash marks are printed for every
50 records received from the server.
.TP
.BI view\fP  filename
Sort and list the output of the
.B ls
command with
.BR more (1).
.TP
.B help
.ns
.TP
.B ?
Print a brief summary of commands.
.HP
.BI set keyword
[
.BI = " value"
]
This command is used to change state
information that affects the lookups.
Valid keywords are:
.RS
.TP
.B all
Prints the current values of the various options to
.BR set .
Information about the  current default
server and host is also printed.
.HP
.RB [ no ] deb\c
.RB [ ug ]
.br
Turn debugging mode on. A lot more information is printed about the
packet sent to the server and the resulting answer.
The default is
.BR nodebug .
.HP
.RB [ no ] def\c
.RB [ name ]
.br
Append the default domain name to every lookup.
The default is
.BR nodefname.
.HP
.BR do [ main ] =\c
.I filename
.br
Change the default domain name to
.IR filename .
The default domain name is appended to all lookup requests if
.B defname
option has been set.
The default is the value in
.BR /etc/resolv.conf .
.HP
.BR q [ querytype ] =\c
.I value
.br
Change the type of information returned from a query to one of:
.RS
.TP 7
A
.PD 0
The host's Internet address (the default).
.TP
.SM \fBCNAME\fR
The canonical name for an alias.
.TP
.SM \fBHINFO\fR
The host
.SM CPU
and operating system type.
.TP
.SM \fBMD\fR
The mail destination.
.TP
.SM \fBMX\fR
The mail exchanger.
.TP
.SM \fBMB\fR
The mailbox domain name.
.TP
.SM \fBMG\fR
The mail group member.
.TP
.SM \fBMINFO\fR
The mailbox or mail list information.
.PD
.RE
.IP
(Other types specified in the
.SM RFC\s0883
document are valid, but are not
very useful.)
.HP
.RB [ no ] rec\c
.RB urse
.br
Tell the name server to query other servers if it does not have the
information.
The default is
.BR recurse .
.HP
.BR ret [ ry ] =\c
.I count
.br
Set the number of times to retry a request before giving up to
.IR count .
When a reply to a request is not received within a certain
amount of time (changed with
\fBset timeout\fP),
the request is resent.  The default is
.I count
is
.BR 2 .
.HP
.BR ro [ ot ] =\c
.I host
.br
Change the name of the root server to
.IR host .
This
affects the
.B root
command.  The default root server is
.BR sri-nic.arpa .
.HP
.BR t [ timeout ] =\c
.I interval
.br
Change the time-out for a reply to
.I interval
seconds.
The default
.I interval is
.B 10
seconds.
.HP
.RB [ no ] v\c
.RB [ c ]
.br
Always use a virtual circuit when sending requests to the server.
The default is
.BR novc .
.RE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the lookup request was not successful, an error message is printed.
Possible errors are:
.TP
.B Time-out
The server did not respond to a request after a certain amount of
time (changed with
.BI set " timeout" =\|value\fR)
and a certain number of retries (changed with
.BI set " retry" =\|value\fR).
.TP
.B No information
Depending on the query type set with the
.B set querytype
command,
no information about the host was available, though the host name is
valid.
.TP
.B Non-existent domain
The host or domain name does not exist.
.TP
.B Connection refused
.ns
.TP
.B Network is unreachable
The connection to the name or finger server could not be made
at the current time.
This error commonly occurs with
.B finger
requests.
.TP
.B Server failure
The name server found an internal inconsistency in its database
and could not return a valid answer.
.TP
.B Refused
The name server refused to service the request.
.sp 1
.LP
The following error should not occur and
it indicates a bug in the program.
.TP
.B Format error
The name server found that the request
packet was not in the proper format.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/resolv.conf
initial domain name and name server addresses.
.br
.ne 7
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR resolver (3),
.BR resolv.conf (5),
.BR named (8C),
.LP
.SM RFC\s0 1034,
.SM RFC\s0 1035
.LP
.TX ADMIN
