.\" @(#)nsquery.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH NSQUERY 8 "June 30 1988"
.SH NAME
nsquery \- RFS name server query
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nsquery
[
.B \-h
] [
.I name
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I \s-1RFS\s0
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "nsquery RFS" "" "\fLnsquery\fP \(em \s-1RFS\s0 name server query" ""
.IX RFS "name server query" "\s-1RFS\s0" "name server query"
.IX query "RFS name server" "query" "\s-1RFS\s+1 name server"
.LP
.B nsquery
provides information about resources available to the host
from both the local domain and from other domains.
All resources are reported, regardless of whether the
host is authorized to access them.
When used with no options,
.B nsquery
identifies all resources in
the domain that have been advertised as sharable.
A report on selected resources can be obtained by specifying
.IR name ,
where
.I name
is one of:
.RS
.TP 17
.I nodename
The report will include only those resources available from
.IR nodename .
.TP
.I domain.
The report will include only those resources available from
.IR domain .
.TP
.I domain.nodename
The report will include only those resources available from
.IR domain.nodename .
.RE
.LP
When the name does not include the delimiter
.RB ` . ',
it will be interpreted as a
.I nodename
within the local domain.
If the name ends with a delimiter
.RB ` . ',
it will be interpreted as a domain name.
.LP
The information contained in the report on each resource includes
its advertised name
.RI ( domain.resource ),
the read/write permissions, the server
.RI ( nodename.domain )
that advertised the resource, and a brief textual description.
.LP
A remote domain must be listed in your
.B rfmaster
file in order
to query that domain.
.LP
If no entries are found when
.B nsquery
is executed, the report header is printed.
.LP
If your host cannot contact the domain name server,
an error message will be sent to standard error.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Do not print header.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
The following example displays the resources available
from the domain
.BR sunrfs :
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.ta 10 +9 +9
example%  nsquery sunrfs.
\s-1RESOURCE	ACCESS	SERVER	DESCRIPTION\s0

LOCAL_SUN3	read-only	sunrfs.estale	
LOCAL_SUN4	read-only	sunrfs.estale	
LOCAL_SHARE	read-only	sunrfs.estale	
.DT
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rfmaster (5),
.BR adv (8),
.BR unadv (8)
