.\" @(#)openboot.8s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new for 4.1.1
.TH OPENBOOT 8S "29 April 1992"
.SH NAME
openboot \- start the system kernel or a standalone program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "SPARCstation 1 SYSTEMS"
.LP
.B >b
[
.I device
[
.BI ( c , \|u\c
.BI ,\| p )
] ] [
.I filename
]
.I boot-flags
.SS "SPARCstation 2 SYSTEMS, SPARCstation 10 SYSTEMS, SPARCsystem 600MP SERIES"
.LP

.B >b
[
.I device-specifier
] [
.I filename
]
.I boot-flags
.LP
.B    or
.LP
.B ok boot
[
.I device-specifier
] [
.I filename
]
.I boot-flags

.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems,
\s-1SPARC\s0system 600MP series only.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "boot command"  ""  "\fLboot\fP \(em system startup procedures"
.IX  "bootstrap procedures"  ""  "bootstrap procedures \(em \fLboot\fP"
.IX  "autoboot procedures"  ""  "autoboot procedures \(em \fLboot\fP"
.IX  "startup procedures"  ""  "startup procedures \(em \fLboot\fP"
.LP
The boot program is started by the
.SM PROM
monitor and loads the
kernel, or another executable program, into memory.
.SH USAGE
.SS "Booting Standalone"
.LP
When booting standalone, the boot program
.RB ( /boot )
is brought in by the
.SM PROM
from the file system. 
The
.SM PROM
contains drivers for all devices. The boot program simply accesses
the 
.SM PROM
device drivers via the \s-1ROMVEC\s0 interface.
.SS "Booting a System Over the Network"
.LP
When booting over the network, the system
.SM PROM
obtains a version of the boot program from
a server using the Trivial File
Transfer Protocol (\s-1TFTP\s0).
The client broadcasts a
.SM RARP
request containing its Ethernet address.
A server responds with the client's
Internet address.
The client then sends a
.SM TFTP
request for its boot program to that
server (or if that fails, it broadcasts the request).
The filename requested from a server must
have a suffix that reflects the 
.I kernel
architecture of the
machine being booted.
For these systems, the requested filename
has the form:
.IP
.IB ip-address . arch
.LP
where
.I ip-address
is the machine's Internet Protocol
(\s-1IP\s0) address in hex, and
.I arch
is a suffix representing its kernel architecture.
These filenames are restricted to 14 characters
for compatibility with 
.SM UNIX
System V and other operating systems.
Therefore, the architecture suffix is limited to 5 characters;
it must be in upper case.  At present, the following suffixes are
recognized:
.SB SUN3
for Sun-3 systems,
.SB SUN3X
for Sun-3x systems,
.SB SUN4
for Sun-4 systems,
.SB SUN4C
for Sun-4c systems,
.SB SUN4M
for Sun-4m systems,
.SB S386 
for Sun386i systems,
and
.SB PCNFS
for
.BR \s-1PC-NFS\s0.
.BR arch (1)
may be used to determine the kernel architecture of a machine.
.LP
When the Sun server receives the request, it looks in the directory
.B /tftpboot
for
.IR filename .
That file is typically a symbolic link to the client's boot program,
normally
.BI boot. arch
in the same directory.
The server invokes the
.SM TFTP
server,
.BR tftpd (8C),
to transfer the file to the client.
.LP
When the file is successfully read in by the client,
the boot program jumps to the load-point and loads
.B vmunix
(or a standalone program). 
In order to do this,
the boot program makes a broadcast
.SM RARP
request to find the client's
.SM IP
address,
and then makes a second broadcast request to a
.BR bootparamd (8)
bootparams daemon, for information necessary to boot the client.
The bootparams daemon obtains this information either from a local
.B /etc/bootparams
database file, or from an NIS
map.  The boot program sends two requests
to the bootparams daemon \(em the first,
.BR whoami ,
to obtain its hostname, and the second,
.BR getfile ,
to obtain the name of the client's server and the pathname of
the client's root partition.
.LP
The boot program then performs a
.BR mount (8)
operation to mount the client's root partition,
after which it can read in and execute
any program within that partition by pathname
(including a symbolic link to another file within that same
partition).
Typically, it reads in the file
.BR /vmunix .
If the program is not read in successfully,
.B boot
responds with a short diagnostic message.
.SS "System Startup"
.LP
Once the system is loaded and running, the
kernel performs some internal housekeeping, configures its
device drivers, and allocates its internal tables and buffers.
The kernel then starts process number 1 to run
.BR init (8),
which performs file system housekeeping, starts system daemons,
initializes the system console, and begins multiuser operation.
Some of these activities are omitted when
.B init
is invoked with certain
.IR boot-flags .
These are typically entered as arguments to the boot command
and passed along by the kernel to
.BR init .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.I device
One of:
.RS
.TP
.B le
.PD 0
Lance Ethernet
.TP
.B sd
.SM SCSI
disk, \s-1CDROM\s0
.TP
.B st
.SM SCSI
1/4" or 1/2" tape
.TP
.B fd
Diskette (Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems only)
.TP
.B id
\s-1IPI\s0 disk (\s-1SPARC\s0system 600\s-1MP\s0 series only)
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I c
Controller number,
.B 0
if there is only one controller for the indicated
type of device.
.TP
.I u
Unit number,
.B 0
if there is only one driver.
.TP
.I p
Partition number when booting off a disk, or
tape file number when booting from a tape.
Defaults to 
.BR 0 .
.TP
.I device-specifier
The
.I device-specifier
is a device name or a device alias.
A default boot device is used if the
.I device-specifier
is not given. If a
.I device-specifier
is given and it is not a device alias, it is checked to see
whether it is a valid device name.
If it is not a valid device name (indicated by a leading "/"),
then the default boot device is used, and the word is considered
to be the
.I filename.
Refer to the
.IR "Open Boot PROM 2.0 Toolkit User's Guide" .
The Open Boot Prom(OBP) command
.B show-devs
can be used to retrieve all of the devices known to the system.
A valid device name of a \s-1SCSI\s0 disk on a 
\s-1SPARC\s0system 600\s-1MP\s0, for example, is shown as follows:
.RS
.IP
/iommu@f,e0000000/sbus@f,e0001000/esp@f,80000/sd@3,0
.RE
.IP
The OBP command
.B devalias
displays all of the system built-in and user-defined device aliases.
For example, the alias
.B disk
may represent the
.I device-path
.RS
.IP
/iommu@f,e0000000/sbus@f,e0001000/esp@f,80000/sd@3,0
.RE
.br
.TP
.I filename
Name of a standalone program in the selected partition, such as
.BR stand/diag
or
.BR vmunix .
Note:
.I filename
is relative to the root of the selected
device and partition.
It never begins with a
.RB ` / '
(slash).
If
.I filename
is not given, the boot program uses a default value (normally
.BR vmunix ).
This is stored in the
.B vmunix
variable in the
.B boot
executable file supplied by Sun, but can
be patched to indicate another
standalone program loaded using
.BR adb (1).
.br
.TP
.I boot-flags
The boot program passes all
.I boot-flags
to the kernel or standalone program.
They are typically  arguments to
that program or, as with those listed below, arguments to programs
that it invokes.
.RS
.TP
.B \-a
Prompt interactively for the device and name of the file to boot.
For more information on how to boot from a specific device, refer to
.TX INSTALL .
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose.  
Print more detailed information to assist in
diagnosing booting problems.
.TP
.B \-b
Pass the
.B \-b
flag through the kernel to
.BR init (8)
to skip execution of the
.B /etc/rc.local
script.
.TP
.B \-h
Halt after loading the system.
.TP
.B \-s
Pass the
.B \-s
flag through the kernel to
.BR init (8)
for single-user operation.
.TP
.B \-d
Pass the
.B \-d
debug flag through the debugger (e.g., kadb) to a standalone
program being debugged.
.TP
.B \-w
Pass the
.B \-w
flag to the kernel to mount a root file system read-write.
.TP
.BI \-i " initname"
Pass the
.BI \-i " initname"
to the kernel to tell it to run
.I initname
as the first program rather than the default
.BR /sbin/init .
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /boot
standalone boot program
.TP
.BI /tftpboot/ address
symbolic link to the boot program for the client whose Internet address,
in uppercase hexadecimal, is
.I address
.TP
.B /tftpboot/boot.sun4c
Sun-4c first stage boot program
.TP
.B /tftpboot/boot.sun4m
Sun-4m first stage boot program
.TP
.B /usr/etc/in.tftpd
\s-1TFTP\s0
server
.TP
.B /usr/kvm/mdec/installboot
program to install boot blocks from a remote host
.TP
.B /vmunix
kernel file that is booted by default
.TP
.B /usr/kvm/boot
.TP
.B /etc/bootparams
file defining root and swap paths for clients
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR adb (1),
.BR arch (1),
.BR tftp (1C),
.BR boot (8S),
.BR bootparamd (8),
.BR init (8),
.BR kadb (8S),
.BR monitor (8S),
.BR mount (8),
.BR ndbootd (8C),
.BR rc (8),
.BR reboot (8),
.BR tftpd (8C)
.LP
.I Open Boot PROM 2.0 Toolkit
.I User's Guide
.br
.I Open Boot PROM Toolkit User's Guide
.br
.TX INSTALL
.br
.TX ADMIN
.SH NOTES
.LP
NIS was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages (\s-1YP\s0).  The
functionality of the two remains the same; only the name has changed.
