.\" @(#)pnpboot.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH PNPBOOT 8C "5 December 1987"
.SH NAME
pnpboot, pnp.s386 \- pnp diskless boot service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /tftpboot/pnp.s386
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "pnp.sun3" "" "\fLpnpboot\fP \(em pnp diskless boot service"
.IX "pnp.s386" "" "\fLpnpboot\fP \(em pnp diskless boot service"
.IX "pnpboot" "" "\fLpnpboot\fP \(em pnp diskless boot service"
.LP
.B pnp.s386
is a level 2 boot program that requests actions necessary to set up a
diskless workstation on the network.
.LP
The 
.SM PNP 
diskless boot service is used by diskless workstations at installation
time to locate a server that will configure the diskless client.
.LP
The last steps of the level 1 boot (from the PROM)
are to load the level 2 program
through
.BR rarpd (8C)
and 
.BR tftpd (8C).
The first step in the boot sequence is
.SM RARP
to acquire an IP address.  This is followed by
.SM TFTP
service calls to acquire the
.B pnp.sun*
program file needed for the client's architecture.  A
.SB PNP_ACQUIRE
.SM RPC
is then broadcast to locate a server willing to configure the diskless
client.  
.LP
A
.SB PNP_SETUP
is issued to the server which returns one of three statuses: success,
failure, or in_progress.  As long as the server responds with a status of
in_progress the client will periodically issue a
.SB PNP_POLL
until the status changes to either success or failure.
.LP
The last step is to reboot the client.  This goes through a
.SM RARP,
.SM TFTP,
.SM BOOT
sequence, with the boot using the normal
.B boot.sun*
file and
.BR bootparamd (8)
service.
.LP
The system will have been set up using the IP address returned in the first
step and a system name will have been assigned.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /tftpboot/pnp.sun*
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bootparam (3R), 
.BR bootparams (5)
.BR boot (8S),
.BR bootparamd (8), 
.BR ipallocd (8C),
.BR netconfig (8C),
.BR pnpd (8C),
.BR rarpd (8C),
.BR tftpd (8C),
