.\" @(#)praudit.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH PRAUDIT 8 "7 September 1988"
.SH NAME
praudit \- print contents of an audit trail file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B praudit
[
.B \-lrs
] [
.BI \-d del
] [
.I filename
\&.\|.\|.
]
.IX  praudit  ""  "\fLpraudit\fP \(em display audit trail"
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I Security
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B praudit
reads the listed
.IR filename s
(or standard input, if no
.I filename
is specified)
and interprets the data as audit trail records as defined in
.BR audit_control (5).
By default, times, security labels, user and group
.SM ID\s0s
(\s-1UID\s0s
and
.SM GID\s0s,
respectively)
are converted to their
.SM ASCII
representation.
Record type and event fields are converted to long
.SM ASCII
representation.
A maximum of 100 audit files can be specified on the command line.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
Print records one line per record.
The record type and event fields are always converted
to their short
.SM ASCII
representation.
.TP
.B \-r
Print records in their raw form.
Times, security labels,
.SM UID\s0s,
.SM GID\s0s,
record types, and events are displayed as integers. 
Currently, labels are not
used and are displayed as zero in this mode.  
This option and the 
.B \-s
option are exclusive.
If both are used, a format usage error message is output.
.TP
.B \-s
Print records in their short form.
All numeric fields are converted to
.SM ASCII
and displayed.
The short
.SM ASCII
representations for the record type and event fields are used.
Security labels are displayed in their short representation.
Again, labels are not currently used.
This option and the 
.B \-r
option are exclusive.
If both are used, a format usage error message is output.
.TP
.BI \-d del
Use
.I del 
as the field delimiter instead of the default delimiter, which is the comma.  
If
.I del 
has special meaning for the shell, it must be quoted.
The maximum size of a delimiter is four characters.
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/passwd
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR audit (2),
.BR setuseraudit (2),
.BR getauditflags (3),
.BR audit_control (5)
