.\" @(#)pstat.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH PSTAT 8 "27 January 1988"
.SH NAME
pstat \- print system facts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/pstat
[
.B \-afipSsT
] [
.B \-u
.I pid
] [
.I system
[
.I corefile
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "pstat command"  ""  "\fLpstat\fP \(em display system statistics"
.LP
.B pstat
interprets the contents of certain system tables.  If
.I corefile
is given, the tables are sought there, otherwise in
.BR /dev/kmem .
The required namelist is taken from
.B /vmunix
unless 
.I system
is specified.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP
.B \-a
Under
.BR \-p ,
describe all process slots rather than just active ones.
.TP
.B \-f
Print the open file table with these headings:
.RS
.RS
.TP 12
.PD 0
.SM LOC
The memory address of this table entry.
.TP
.SM TYPE
The type of object the file table entry points to.
.TP
.SM FLG
Miscellaneous state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
R
open for reading
.TP
W
open for writing
.TP
A
open for appending
.TP
S
shared lock present
.TP
X
exclusive lock present
.TP
I
signal pgrp when data ready
.RE
.RE
.TP
.SM CNT
Number of processes that know this open file.
.TP
.SM MSG
Number of references from message queue.
.TP
.SM DATA
The location of the vnode table entry or socket for this file.
.TP
.SM OFFSET
The file offset (see
.BR lseek (2V)).
.PD
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B \-i
Print the inode table including the associated vnode entries
with these headings:
.RS
.RS
.TP 12
.PD 0
.SM ILOC
The memory address of this table entry.
.TP
.SM IFLAG
Miscellaneous inode state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
A
inode access time must be corrected
.TP
C
inode change time must be corrected
.TP
L
inode is locked
.TP
R
inode is being referenced
.TP
U
update time
.RB ( fs (5))
must be corrected
.TP
W
wanted by another process (L flag is on)
.RE
.RE
.TP
.SM IDEVICE
Major and minor device number of file system in which
this inode resides.
.TP
.SM INO
I-number within the device.
.TP
.SM MODE
Mode bits in octal, see
.BR chmod (2V).
.TP
.SM NLK
Number of links to this inode.
.TP
.SM UID
User
.SM ID
of owner.
.TP
.SM SIZE/DEV
Number of bytes in an ordinary file,
or major and minor device of special file.
.TP
.SM VFLAG
Miscellaneous vnode state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
R
root of its file system
.TP
S
shared lock applied
.TP
E
exclusive lock applied
.TP
Z
process is waiting for a shared or exclusive lock
.RE
.RE
.TP
.SM CNT
Number of open file table entries for this vnode.
.TP
.SM SHC
Reference count of shared locks on the vnode.
.TP
.SM EXC
Reference count of exclusive locks on the vnode (this may be
.RB ` "> 1" '
if, for example, a file descriptor is inherited across a fork).
.TP
.SM TYPE
Vnode file type, either
.SM VNON
(no type),
.SM VREG
(regular),
.SM VDIR
(directory),
.SM VBLK
(block device),
.SM VCHR
(character device),
.SM VLNK
(symbolic link),
.SM VSOCK
(socket),
.SM VFIFO
(named pipe), or
.SM VBAD
(bad).
.PD
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B \-p
Print process table for active processes with these headings:
.RS
.RS
.TP 12
.PD 0
.SM LOC
The memory address of this table entry.
.TP
S
Run state encoded thus:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
0
no process
.TP
1
awaiting an event
.TP
2
(abandoned state)
.TP
3
runnable
.TP
4
being created
.TP
5
being terminated
.TP
6
stopped (by signal or under trace)
.RE
.RE
.TP
F
Miscellaneous state variables,
.SM OR\s0ed
together (hexadecimal):
.RS
.RS
.TP 12
0000001
loaded
.TP
0000002
a system process (scheduler or page-out daemon)
.TP
0000004
locked for swap out
.TP
0000008
swapped out during process creation
.TP
0000010
process is being traced
.TP
0000020
tracing parent has been told that process is stopped
.TP
0000040
user settable lock in memory
.TP
0000080
in page-wait
.TP
0000100
prevented from swapping during
.BR fork (2V)
.TP
0000200
will restore old mask after taking signal
.TP
0000400
exiting
.TP
0000800
doing physical I/O
.TP
0001000
process resulted from a
.BR vfork (2)
which is not yet complete
.TP
0002000
another flag for
.BR vfork (2)
.TP
0004000
process has no virtual memory, as it is a parent in the context of
.BR vfork (2)
.TP
0008000
process is demand paging pages from its executable image vnode
.TP
0010000
process has advised of sequential
.SM VM
behavior with
.BR vadvise (2)
.TP
0020000
process has advised of random
.SM VM
behavior with
.BR vadvise (2)
.TP
0080000
process is a session process group leader
.TP
0100000
process is tracing another process
.TP
0200000
process needs a profiling tick
.TP
0400000
process is scanning descriptors during select
.TP
4000000
process has done record locks
.TP
8000000
process is having its system calls traced
.RE
.RE
.TP
.SM PRI
Scheduling priority, see
.BR getpriority (2).
.TP
.SM SIG
Signals received (signals 1-32 coded in bits 0-31).
.TP
.SM UID
Real user
.SM ID\s0.
.TP
.SM SLP
Amount of time process has been blocked.
.TP
.SM TIM
Time resident in seconds; times over 127 coded as 127.
.TP
.SM CPU
Weighted integral of
.SM CPU
time, for scheduler.
.TP
.SM NI
Nice level, see
.BR getpriority (2).
.TP
.SM PGRP
Process number of root of process group.
.TP
.SM PID
The process
.SM ID number.
.TP
.SM PPID
The process
.SM ID
of parent process.
.TP
.SM RSS
Resident set size \(em the number of physical page frames allocated
to this process.
.TP
.SM SRSS
.SM RSS
at last swap (0 if never swapped).
.TP
.SM SIZE
The size of the process image.  That is, the sum of the data and
stack segment sizes, not including the sizes of any shared libraries.
.TP
.SM WCHAN
Wait channel number of a waiting process.
.TP
.SM LINK
Link pointer in list of runnable processes.
.PD
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B \-S
Print the streams table with these headings:
.RS
.RS
.TP 12
.PD 0
.SM LOC
The memory address of this table entry.
.TP
.SM WRQ
The address of this stream's write queue.
.TP
.SM VNODE
The address of this stream's vnode.
.TP
.SM DEVICE
Major and minor device number of device to which this stream refers.
.TP
.SM PGRP
This stream's process group number.
.TP
.SM SIGIO
The process id or process group that has this stream
.BR open(\|) .
.TP
.SM FLG
Miscellaneous stream state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
I
waiting for
.BR ioctl (\|)
to finish
.TP
R
read/recvmsg is blocked
.TP
W
write/putmsg is blocked
.TP
P
priority message is at stream head
.TP
H
device has been ``hung up'' (\fB\s-1M_HANGUP\s0\fR)
.TP
O
waiting for open to finish
.TP
M
stream is linked under multiplexor
.TP
D
stream is in message-discard mode
.TP
N
stream is in message-nondiscard mode
.TP
E
fatal error has occurred (\fB\s-1M_ERROR\s0\fR)
.TP
T
waiting for queue to drain when closing
.TP
2
waiting for previous
.BR ioctl (\|)
to finish before starting new one
.TP
3
waiting for acknowledgment for
.BR ioctl (\|)
.TP
B
stream is in non-blocking mode
.TP
A
stream is in asynchronous mode
.TP
o
stream uses old-style no-delay mode
.TP
S
stream has had
.SB TOSTOP
set
.TP
C
VTIME clock running
.TP
V
VTIME timer expired
.TP
r
collision on
.BR select (\|)
for reading
.TP
w
collision on
.BR select (\|)
for writing
.TP
e
collision on
.BR select (\|)
for exceptional condition
.PD
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
.IP
The queues on the write and read sides of the stream are listed for each
stream.  Each queue is printed with  these headings:
.RS
.RS
.TP 12
.PD 0
.SM NAME
The name of the module or driver for this queue.
.TP
.SM COUNT
The approximate number of bytes on this queue.
.TP
.SM FLG
Miscellaneous state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.RS
.TP 4
E
queue is enabled to run
.TP
R
someone wants to get from this queue when it becomes non-empty
.TP
W
someone wants to put on this queue when it drains
.TP
F
queue is full
.TP
N
queue should not be enabled automatically by a putq
.RE
.RE
.TP
.SM MINPS
The minimum packet size for this queue.
.TP
.SM MAXPS
The maximum packet size for this queue, or
.SB INF
if there is no maximum.
.TP
.SM HIWAT
The high-water mark for this queue.
.TP
.SM LOWAT
The low-water mark for this queue.
.PD
.RE
.RE
.br
.ne 10
.TP
.B \-s
Print information about swap space usage:
.RS
.RS
.TP 12
allocated:
The amount of swap space (in bytes) allocated to private pages.
.TP
reserved:
The number of swap space bytes not currently allocated, but
claimed by memory mappings that have not yet created private
pages.
.TP
used:
The total amount of swap space, in bytes, that is either allocated
or reserved.
.TP
available: 
The total swap space, in bytes, that is currently available for
future reservation and allocation.
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B \-T
Print the number of used and free slots in the several system tables.
This is useful for checking to see how full system tables have become if the
system is under heavy load.  Shows both used and cached inodes.
.TP
.BI \-u " pid"
Print information about the process with
.SM ID
.IR pid .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /vmunix
namelist
.TP
.B /dev/kmem
default source of tables
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ps (1),
.BR chmod (2V),
.BR fork (2V),
.BR getpriority (2),
.BR lseek (2V),
.BR stat (2V),
.BR vadvise (2),
.BR vfork (2),
.BR fs (5)
.BR iostat (8),
.BR vmstat (8),
.SH BUGS
.LP
It would be very useful if the system recorded \*(lqmaximum occupancy\*(rq
on the tables reported by
.BR \-T ;
even more useful if these tables were dynamically allocated.
