.\" @(#)pwdauthd.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH PWDAUTHD 8C "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
pwdauthd \- server for authenticating passwords
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/rpc.pwdauthd
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I Security
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "pwdauthd daemon" "" "\fLpwdauthd\fP daemon"
.LP
.B pwdauthd
is a server that determines authentication for users and groups.
It handles authentication requests from
.BR pwdauth (3)
and
.BR grpauth(\|) .
Communication to and from
.B pwdauthd
is by means of
.SM RPC
calls.  The server is passed a
.I filename
and a
.IR password .
It returns an integer value that specifies whether the
.I password
is valid.  The possible return values are
.SB PWA_VALID
if the name is valid,
.SB PWA_INVALID
if the name is invalid, and
.SB PWA_UNKNOWN
if validity cannot be determined
because no adjunct files are present.
.LP
If
.B pwdauthd
is serving
.IR pwdauth ,
it determines whether the
.B passwd.adjunct
file exists.  If not, it returns
\fB\s-1PWA_UNKNOWN\s0\fR.
In this case,
.I pwdauth
knows to check the
.B /etc/passwd
file.  Otherwise, the server calls
.B getpwanam(\|)
(see
.BR getpwaent (3))
to get the entry for
.I filename
in either the local or the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
file for
.BR passwd.adjunct .
If the encrypted password guess matches
the encrypted password from the file,
.B pwdauthd
returns
.BR \s-1PWA_VALID\s0 .
If the passwords do not match, it returns
.BR \s-1PWA_INVALID\s0 .
.LP
If
.B pwdauthd
is serving
.BR grpauth(\|) ,
it determines whether the
.B group.adjunct
file exists.  If not, it returns
.BR \s-1PWA_UNKNOWN\s0 .
In this case,
.B grpauth(\|)
knows to check the
.B /etc/group
file.
Otherwise, the server calls
.B getgranam(\|)
(see
.BR getgraent (3))
to get the entry for
.I filename
in either the local or the 
.SM NIS
file for
.BR group.adjunct .
If the encrypted password guess matches
the encrypted password from the file,
.B pwdauthd
returns
.BR \s-1PWA_VALID\s0 .
If the passwords do not match, it returns
.BR \s-1PWA_INVALID\s0 .
.\" .SH FILES
.\" .PD 0
.\" .TP 20
.\" .B /etc/security/passwd.adjunct
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /passwd.adjunct.byname
.\" .TP
.\" .B /etc/security/group.adjunct
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /group.adjunct.byname
.\" .PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getgraent (3),
.BR getpwaent (3),
.BR pwdauth (3)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
