.\" @(#)quotacheck.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH QUOTACHECK 8 "9 September 1987"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
quotacheck \- file system quota consistency checker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/quotacheck
[
.B \-v
] [
.B \-p
]
.IR filesystem .\|.\|.
.LP
.B /usr/etc/quotacheck
[
.B \-apv
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "quotacheck command"  ""  "\fLquotacheck\fP \(em check quota consistency"
.IX  "user quotas"  "quotacheck command"  ""  "\fLquotacheck\fP \(em check quota consistency"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "quotacheck command"  ""  "\fLquotacheck\fP \(em check quota consistency"
.IX  "quotas"  "quotacheck command"  ""  "\fLquotacheck\fP \(em check quota consistency"
.IX  "file system"  "quotacheck command"  ""  "\fLquotacheck\fP \(em check quota consistency"
.IX  "check quota consistency quotacheck"  ""  "check quota consistency \(em \fLquotacheck\fP"
.LP
.B quotacheck
examines each file system, builds a table of current disk usage, and
compares this table against that stored in the disk quota file for the
file system.
If any inconsistencies are detected, both the quota file
and the current system copy of the incorrect quotas are updated (the
latter only occurs if an active file system is checked).
.LP
.B quotacheck
expects each file system to be checked to have a quota file named
.I quotas
in the root directory.  If none is present,
.B quotacheck
will ignore the file system.
.LP
.B quotacheck
is normally run at boot time from the
.B /etc/rc.local
file, see
.BR rc (8),
before enabling disk quotas with
.BR quotaon (8).
.LP
.B quotacheck
accesses the raw device in calculating the actual disk usage for each
user.  Thus, the file systems checked should be quiescent while
.B quotacheck
is running.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
Indicate the calculated disk quotas
for each user on a particular file system.
.B quotacheck
normally reports only those quotas modified.
.TP
.B \-a
Check all the file systems indicated in
.B /etc/fstab
to be read-write with disk quotas.
.TP
.B \-p
Run parallel passes on the required file systems,
using the pass numbers in
.B /etc/fstab
in an identical fashion to
.BR fsck (8).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B quotas
quota file at the file system root
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
mounted file systems
.TP
.B /etc/fstab
default file systems
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR rc (8)
