.\" @(#)rarpd.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH RARPD 8C "18 December 1989"
.SH NAME
rarpd \- TCP/IP Reverse Address Resolution Protocol server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/rarpd
.I interface
[
.I hostname
]
.LP
.B /usr/etc/rarpd 
.B \-a
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "rarpd daemon" "" "\fLrarpd\fR \(em Reverse Address Resolution Protocol daemon"
.LP
.B rarpd
starts a daemon that responds to Reverse Address Resolution Protocol
(\s-1RARP\s0) requests.
The daemon forks a copy of itself that runs in background.
It must be run as root.
.LP
.SM RARP\s0
is used by machines at boot time to discover their
Internet Protocol (\s-1IP\s0) address.
The booting machine provides its Ethernet Address in an
.SM RARP
request message.
Using the \*(lqethers\*(rq and \*(lqhosts\*(rq databases,
.B rarpd
maps this Ethernet Address into the corresponding
.SM IP
address which it returns to the booting machine in an
.SM RARP
reply message.
The booting machine must be listed in both databases for
.B rarpd
to locate its
.SM IP
address.
.B rarpd
issues no reply when it fails to locate an
.SM IP
address.
The \*(lqethers\*(rq and \*(lqhosts\*(rq databases may be contained 
either in files under 
.B /etc 
or in 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
maps.
.LP
In the first synopsis, the
.I interface 
parameter names the network interface upon which 
.B rarpd
is to listen for requests.
The
.I interface
parameter takes the \*(lqname unit\*(rq form used by
.BR ifconfig (8C).
The second argument,
.IR hostname ,
is used to obtain the 
.SM IP
address of that interface.
An 
.SM IP
address in \*(lqdecimal dot\*(rq notation may be used for
.IR hostname .
If
.I hostname
is omitted, the address of the interface will be obtained from the kernel.
When the first form of the command is used,
.B rarpd
must be run separately for each interface
on which \s-1RARP\s0 service is to be supported.
A machine that is a router may invoke
.B rarpd
multiple times, for example:
.LP
.RS
.B /usr/etc/rarpd ie0 host
.br
.B /usr/etc/rarpd ie1 host-backbone
.RE
.LP
In the second synopsis,
.B rarpd
locates all of the network interfaces present on the system
and starts a daemon process for each one that supports \s-1RARP\s0.
.SH "FILES"
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/ethers
.\" .TP 
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /ethers.byaddr.*
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /ethers.byname.*
.TP
.B /etc/hosts
.\" .TP
.\" .BI /var/yp/ domainname /hosts.byname.*
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ethers (5),
.BR hosts (5),
.BR policies (5),
.BR boot (8S),
.BR ifconfig (8C),
.BR ipallocd (8C),
.BR netconfig (8C)
.LP
Finlayson, Ross, Timothy Mann, Jeffrey Mogul, and Marvin Theimer,
.IR "A Reverse Address Resolution Protocol" ,
.SM RFC
903,
Network Information Center,
.SM SRI
International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
June 1984.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
