.\" @(#)rc.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH RC 8 "14 December 1990"
.SH NAME
rc, rc.boot, rc.local \- command scripts for auto-reboot and daemons
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/rc
.LP
.B /etc/rc.boot
.LP
.B /etc/rc.local
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rc command"  ""  "\fLrc\fP \(em startup commands"
.B rc
and
.B rc.boot
are command scripts that are invoked by
.BR init (8)
to perform file system housekeeping and to start system daemons.
.B rc.local
is a script for commands that are pertinent only
to a specific site or client machine.
.LP
.B rc.boot
sets the machine name and, if on SunOS 4.1.1 Rev B or later, invokes 
.BR ifconfig ,
which uses 
.SB RARP 
to obtain the machine's 
.SM IP 
address from the 
.SM NIS 
network.  Then a \*(lqwhoami\*(rq 
bootparams request is used to retrieve the system's
hostname, 
.SM NIS 
domain name and default router.
The
.B ifconfig
and
.B hostconfig
programs set the system's hostname, 
.SM IP 
address, 
.SM NIS 
domain name,
and default router in the kernel.
.LP
If coming up multi-user, 
.B rc.boot 
runs
.BR fsck (8)
with the
.B \-p
option.  This \*(lqpreens\*(rq the disks of minor inconsistencies resulting
from the last system shutdown and checks for serious inconsistencies
caused by hardware or software failure.  If
.BR fsck (8)
detects a serious disk problem, it returns an error and
.BR init (8)
brings the system up in single-user mode.
When coming up single-user, when
.BR init (8)
is invoked by
.BR fastboot (8),
or when it is passed the
.B \-b
flag from
.BR boot (8S),
functions performed in the
.B rc.local
file, including this disk check, are skipped.
.LP
Next,
.B rc
runs.  If the system came up single-user,
.B rc
runs when the single-user shell terminates (see
.BR init (8)).
It mounts 4.2 filesystems and spawns a shell for
.BR /etc/rc.local ,
which mounts
.SM NFS
filesystems, runs
.B sysIDtool
(if on SunOS 4.1.1 Rev B or later)
to set the system's configuration information into local 
configuration files, and starts local daemons.  After
.B rc.local
returns,
.B rc
starts standard daemons, preserves editor files, clears
.BR /tmp ,
starts system accounting (if applicable), starts the network
(where applicable), and if enabled, runs
.BR savecore (8)
to preserve the core image after a crash.
.SH Sun386i 
These files
operate as described above with the following variations:
.LP
.BR fsck (8)
is invoked with the 
.B \-y
option to prevent users being put in single-user mode by happenstance.
.LP
.B rc.boot
invokes 
.BR netconfig (8C)
to configure the system for the network before
booting. 
.B netconfig 
is invoked before the
.B /usr
filesystem is mounted, because
.B /usr
might be mounted from a server.
.B netconfig
writes
.B /etc/net.conf
unless the
.B \-n
option is specified, controlling system booting. 
.LP
.B rc.boot
dynamically loads device drivers.
.LP
.B rc
invokes any programs found in
.B /var/recover
to clean up any operations partially completed when the system 
crashed or was shut down.  
.LP
.B rc.local
starts the automounter.
.LP
The file
.B /etc/net.conf 
stores these environment variables:
The
.SB VERBOSE
environment variable controls the verbosity of the messages from the
.B rc
script; its value is taken from
\fB\s-1NVRAM\s0\fP. 
The
.SB NETWORKED
environment variable controls whether services useful 
only on a networked system are started in
.BR /etc/rc.local . 
The 
.SB PNP
environment variable, set up during initial system installation,
controls whether local network configuration information is used
or whether that information comes from the network. 
(Using automatic system installation causes all systems
except boot servers to get this information
from the network, facilitating network reconfiguration.)
The 
.SB HOSTNAME
and 
.SB DOMAINNAME
environment variables, used together, help determine if this system is
a boot server or, with
.SB PNP
set to 
.BR no ,
control the host name and domain name. 
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/rc
.TP
.B /etc/rc.boot
.TP
.B /etc/rc.local
.TP
.B /etc/net.conf
.TP
.B /var/recover/*
.TP 
.B /var/yp/*
.TP
.B /tmp
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR automount (8),
.BR boot (8S),
.BR fastboot (8),
.BR hostconfig (8),
.BR ifconfig (8C),
.BR init (8),
.BR reboot (8),
.BR savecore (8),
.BR netconfig (8C)
.SH BUGS
The system message file
.B /var/adm/messages
is no longer created automatically.
