.\" @(#)reboot.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH REBOOT 8 "4 July 1990"
.SH NAME
reboot \- restart the operating system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/reboot
[
.B \-dnq
]
[
.I "boot arguments"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "reboot command"  ""  "\fLreboot\fP \(em system startup procedures"
.IX  "bootstrap procedures"  ""  "bootstrap procedures \(em \fLreboot\fP"
.IX  "autoboot procedures"  ""  "autoboot procedures \(em \fLreboot\fP"
.IX  "startup procedures"  ""  "startup procedures \(em \fLreboot\fP"
.LP
.B reboot
executes the
.BR reboot (2)
system call to restart the kernel.
The kernel is loaded into memory by the
.SM PROM
monitor, which transfers control to it.
See
.BR boot (8S)
for details.
.LP
Although
.B reboot
can be run by the super-user at any time,
.BR shutdown (8)
is normally used first to warn all users logged in of the
impending loss of service.
See
.BR shutdown (8)
for details.
.LP
.B reboot
performs a
.BR sync (1)
operation on the disks, and then a multiuser
.B reboot
is initiated.
See
.BR init (8)
for details.
.LP
.B reboot
normally logs the reboot to the system log daemon,
.BR syslogd (8),
and places a shutdown record in the login accounting file
.BR /var/adm/wtmp .
These actions are inhibited if the
.B \-n
or
.B \-q
options are present.
.SS "Power Fail and Crash Recovery"
Normally, the system will reboot itself at power-up or after crashes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Dump system core before rebooting.
.TP
.B \-n
Avoid the
.BR sync (1).
It can be used if a disk or the processor is on fire.
.TP
.B \-q
Quick.
Reboots quickly and ungracefully, without first shutting down
running processes.
.SS "Boot Arguments"
.LP
If a boot argument string is given, it is passed to
the boot command in the 
.SM PROM 
monitor.
The string must be quoted if it contains spaces or other characters
that could be interpreted by the shell.
If the first character of the boot argument string is a minus sign 
.RB ` \- '
the string must be preceded by an option terminator string 
.RB ` \-\|\- '
For example:
.RS
.B reboot \-\|\- \-s
.RE
to reboot and come up single user,
.RS
.B "reboot vmunix.test"
.RE
to reboot to a new kernel.
See
.BR boot (8S)
for details.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/adm/wtmp
login accounting file
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sync (1),
.BR reboot (2),
.BR boot (8S),
.BR fastboot (8),
.BR fasthalt (8),
.BR fsck (8),
.BR halt (8),
.BR init (8),
.BR panic (8S),
.BR shutdown (8),
.BR syslogd (8)
