.\" @(#)rexd.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH REXD 8C "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
rexd, rpc.rexd \- RPC-based remote execution server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/rpc.rexd
.RB [ \-s ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX rexd "" "\fLrexd\fR \(em remote execution daemon"
.LP
.B rexd
is the Sun
.SM RPC
server for remote program execution.
This daemon is started by
.BR inetd (8C)
whenever a remote execution request is made.
.LP
For noninteractive programs, the standard file
descriptors are connected directly to
.SM TCP
connections.
Interactive programs involve pseudo-terminals, in a fashion that
is similar to the login sessions provided by
.BR rlogin (1C).
This daemon may use
.SM NFS
to mount file systems specified
in the remote execution request.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/ttyp\fIn\fR
pseudo-terminals used for interactive mode
.TP
.B /etc/passwd
authorized users
.TP
.B /tmp_rex/rexd??????
temporary mount points for remote file systems.
.PD
.SH  OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s
Secure.
When specified, requests must have valid
des credentials.
If the request does not have
a
.SM DES
credential it is rejected.
The default
publickey credential is rejected.
Only newer
.B on
commands send
.SM DES
credentials.
.IP
If access is denied with an Authentication error,
you may have to set your publickey
with the
.BR chkey (1)
command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR chkey (1),
.BR on (1C),
.BR rlogin (1C),
.BR rex (3R),
.BR exports (5),
.BR inetd.conf (5),
.BR publickey (5),
.BR inetd (8C)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Diagnostic messages are normally printed on the console, and
returned to the requestor.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Root cannot execute commands using
.B rexd
client programs such as
.BR on (1C).
