.\" @(#)rfadmin.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH RFADMIN 8 "30 June 1988"
.SH NAME
rfadmin \- RFS domain administration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rfadmin
.br
.B rfadmin
.B \-p
.br
.B rfadmin
.B \-a
.I hostname
.br
.B rfadmin
.B \-r
.I hostname
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I \s-1RFS\s0
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "rfadmin RFS" "" "\fLrfadmin\fP \(em \s-1RFS\s0 domain administration" ""
.IX RFS "domain administration" "\s-1RFS\s0" "domain administration"
.IX domain "RFS domain administration" "domain" "\s-1RFS\s0 domain administration"
.IX administer "RFS domain" "administer" "\s-1RFS\s0 domain"
.LP
.B rfadmin
is used to add and remove hosts and their associated
authentication information from a
.IB domain /passwd
file on a Remote File Sharing
(\s-1RFS\s0)
primary domain name server.
It is also used to transfer domain name server responsibilities
from one machine to another.
Used with no options,
.B rfadmin
returns the
.I hostname
of the current domain name server for the local domain.
For each
.IR domain ,
.BI /usr/nserve/auth.info/ domain /passwd
is created on the primary, and should be copied to all
secondaries, and all hosts that want to do password
verification of hosts in the
.IR domain .
.LP
.B rfadmin
can only be used to modify domain files on the
primary domain name server
.RB ( \-a
and
.B \-r
options).
If domain name server reponsibilities are temporarily
passed to a secondary domain name server,
that computer can use the
.B \-p
option to pass domain name server responsibility
back to the primary.
Any host can use
.B rfadmin
with no options
to print information about the domain.
The user must have
.B root
permissions to use the command.
.LP
Using
.B rfadmin 
with the
.B \-a
option, will result in an error if
.I hostname
is not unique in the domain.
.LP
Using 
.B rfadmin
with the
.B \-r
option, will send an error to the standard error
if one of the following is true:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
.I hostname
does not exist in the domain.
.TP
\(bu
.I hostname
is defined as a domain name server.
.TP
\(bu
There are resources advertised by
.IR hostname .
.RE
.LP
When used with the
.B \-p
option, 
.B rfadmin
sends an error message to standard error,
if there are no backup name servers defined for
.IR domain .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p
Pass the domain name server responsibilities back to a primary
or to a secondary name server.
.TP 
.BI \-a " hostname"
Add a host to a domain that is served by this domain name server.
.I hostname
must be of the form
.IR domain.nodename .
Create an entry for
.I hostname
in the
.IB domain /passwd
file, which has the same format as
.BR /etc/passwd ,
and prompt for an initial authentication password;
the password prompting process conforms with that of
.BR passwd (1).
.TP
.BI \-r " hostname"
Remove a host from its domain by removing it from the
.IB domain /passwd
file.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BI /usr/nserve/auth.info/ domain /passwd
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR passwd (1),
.BR mount (8),
.BR rfstart (8),
.BR rfstop (8)
