.\" @(#)rfpasswd.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH RFPASSWD 8 "30 June 1988"
.SH NAME
rfpasswd \- change RFS host password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rfpasswd
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I \s-1RFS\s0
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "rfpasswd change" "" "\fLrfpasswd\fP \(em change \s-1RFS\s0 host password"
.IX password "change RFS host password" "password" "change \s-1RFS\s0 host password"
.IX RFS "change RFS host password" "\s-1RFS\s0" "change \s-1RFS\s0 host password"
.IX change "RFS host password" "change" "\s-1RFS\s0 host password"
.LP
.B rfpasswd
updates the Remote File Sharing
(\s-1RFS\s0)
authentication password for a host;
processing of the new password
follows the same criteria as
.BR passwd (1).
The updated password is registered at the domain name server
.RB ( /usr/nserve/auth.info/\fIdomain\fP/passwd )
and replaces the password stored at the local host
.RB ( /usr/nserve/loc.passwd/file ).
.LP
This command is restricted to the super-user.
.LP
Note: if you change your host password, make sure that hosts that
validate your password are notified of this change.
To receive the new password, hosts must obtain a copy of the
.IB domain / passwd
file from the domain's primary name server.
If this is not done,
.IR "attempts to mount remote resources may fail" .
.LP
If any of the following is true an error message
will be sent to the standard error:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
The old password entered from this command does not
match the existing password for this machine.
.TP
\(bu
The two new passwords entered from this command do not match.
.TP
\(bu
The new password does not satisfy the security criteria in
.BR passwd (1).
.TP
\(bu
The domain name server does not know about this machine.
.TP
\(bu
The command is not run with super-user privileges.
.RE
.LP
Also, 
.SM RFS
must be running
on your host and your domain's primary name server.
A new password cannot be logged if a secondary
is acting as the domain name server.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BI /usr/nserve/auth.info/ domain /passwd
.TP
.B /usr/nserve/loc.passwd
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR passwd (1),
.BR rfadmin (8),
.BR rfstart (8)
