.\" @(#)rfstart.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH RFSTART 8 "30 June 1988"
.SH NAME
rfstart \- start RFS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rfstart
[
.B \-v
] [
.BI \-p " primary_addr"
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I \s-1RFS\s0
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "RFS" "start" "\fLrfstart\fR \(em start \s-1RFS\s0" ""
.IX start RFS start \s-1RFS\s0
.LP
.B rfstart
starts Remote File Sharing
(\s-1RFS\s0)
and defines an authentication level for incoming requests. 
This command can be used only after the domain name
server is set up and your computer's domain name and
network specification has been defined using
.BR dname (8).
.LP
If the host password has not been set,
.B rfstart
will prompt for a password;
the password prompting process must match the password entered
for your machine at the primary domain name server (see
.BR rfadmin (8)).
If you remove the
.B loc.passwd
file or change domains, you will
also have to reenter the password.
.LP
Also, when
.B rfstart
is run on a domain name server, entries in the
.BR rfmaster (5)
file are syntactically validated.
.LP
This command is restricted to the super-user.
.LP
If syntax errors are found in validating the
.BR rfmaster (5)
file, a warning describing each error will be sent to the standard error.
.LP
An error message will be sent to the standard error if
any of the following is true:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
The shared resource environment is already running.
.TP
\(bu
There is no communications network.
.TP
\(bu
The domain name server cannot be found.
.TP
\(bu
The domain name server does not recognize the machine.
.TP
\(bu
The command is run without super-user privileges.
.RE
.LP
Remote file sharing will not start if the host password in
.B /usr/nserve/loc.passwd
is corrupted. 
If you suspect this has happened, remove the file and run
.B rfstart
again to reenter your password.
.LP
Note:
.B rfstart
will
.I not
fail if your host password does not match
the password on the domain name server.
You will simply receive a warning message. 
However, if you try to mount a resource from the primary
or any other host that validates your password, the
mount will fail if your password does not match the one
that host has listed for your machine.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
Specify that verification of all clients is required in response to
initial incoming mount requests;
any host not in the file
.BI /usr/nserve/auth.info/ domain /passwd
for the
.B domain
they belong to, will not be allowed to mount resources
from your host.
If the
.B \-v
option is not specified, hosts named in
.IB domain /passwd
will be verified, other hosts will be allowed to
connect without verification.
.TP
.BI \-p " primary_addr"
Indicate the primary domain name server for your domain.
.I primary_addr
must be the network address of the primary name
server for your domain.
If the
.B \-p
option is not specified, the address of the domain
name server is taken from the
.B rfmaster
file. 
See
.BR rfmaster (5)
for a description of the valid address syntax.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/nserve/rfmaster
.TP 
.B /usr/nserve/loc.passwd
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rfmaster (5),
.BR adv (8),
.BR dname (8),
.BR mount (8),
.BR rfadmin (8),
.BR rfstop (8),
.BR unadv (8)
