.\" @(#)rfuadmin.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5r3
.TH RFUADMIN 8 "30 September 1988"
.SH NAME
rfuadmin \- RFS notification shell script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rfuadmin
.I "message remote_resource"
[
.I seconds
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I \s-1RFS\s0
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "rfuadmin RFS" "" "\fLrfuadmin\fR \(em notification shell script"
.IX RFS "notification shell script" "RFS" "notification shell script"
.IX network "RFS notification shell script"
.IX "unmount, forced" "RFS notification shell script"
.LP
The
.B rfuadmin 
shell script is used to respond to unexpected Remote File Sharing
(\s-1RFS\s0)
events picked up by the
.BR rfudaemon (8) 
process.
Such events may include broken network connections and forced
unmounts.
This script is not intended to be run directly from the
shell.
.LP
Responses to messages received by
.B rfudaemon 
can be tailored to suit the particular system by editing this script.
The following paragraphs describe the arguments passed to
.B rfuadmin 
and its standard responses.
.TP
.BI disconnect " remote_resource"
A link to a remote resource has been cut.
.B rfudaemon
executes
.BR rfuadmin , 
passing it the message
.B disconnect 
and the name of the disconnected resource.
.B rfuadmin 
sends this message to all terminals using
.BR wall (1):
.RS
.RS
.IB remote_resource " has been disconnected from the system."
.RE
.RE
.IP
.B rfuadmin
executes
.BR fuser (8)
to kill all processes using the
resource, unmounts the resource, and
attempts to mount the resource again.
.TP 8
.B fumount " remote_resource"
A remote server machine has forced an unmount of a resource
a local machine has mounted. 
The processing is 
similar to processing for a disconnect.
.TP 8
.BI fuwarn " remote_resource seconds"
This message notifies
.B rfuadmin 
that a resource is about to be unmounted.
.B rfudaemon 
sends this script the
.B fuwarn 
message, the resource name, and the number of seconds in
which the forced unmount will occur.
.B rfuadmin 
sends this message to all terminals:
.RS
.RS
.IB remote_resource " is being removed from the system in " # " seconds."
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR wall (1),
.BR fumount (8),
.BR fuser (8),
.BR mount (8),
.BR rfstart (8),
.BR rfudaemon (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
The console must be on when
.SM RFS
is running, otherwise
.B rfuadmin 
hangs when it attempts to write to it,
in which case recovery from disconected resources
may not complete.
