.\" @(#)rfudaemon.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5r3
.TH RFUDAEMON 8 "30 September 1988"
.SH NAME
rfudaemon \- Remote File Sharing daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rfudaemon
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I \s-1RFS\s0
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "rfudaemon RFS" "" "\fLrfudaemon\fP \(em \s-1RFS\s0 daemon" ""
.IX RFS "daemon" "\s-1RFS\s0" "daemon"
.IX daemon "RFS" "daemon" "\s-1RFS\s0" 
The
.SM RFS
daemon,
.BR rfudaemon ,
is started automatically by
.BR rfstart (8)
and runs as a daemon process while Remote File Sharing is active.
It listens for unexpected events, such as broken
network connections and forced unmounts, and invokes
.BR rfuadmin (8)
to execute the appropriate administrative procedures.
Events recognized by
.B rfudaemon
are as follows:
.TP
.B disconnect
A link to a remote resource has been cut.
.B rfudaemon
executes
.BR rfuadmin , 
with two arguments:
.B disconnect
and the name of the disconnected resource.
.TP 
.B fumount
A remote server machine has forced an unmount of a resource
a local machine has mounted.
.B rfudaemon
executes
.BR rfuadmin , 
with two arguments:
.B fumount
and the name of the disconnected resource.
.TP
.B getumsg
A remote user-level program has sent a message
to the local
.BR rfudaemon .  
Currently the only message sent is
.BR fuwarn , 
which notifies
.B rfuadmin 
that a resource is about to be unmounted.  
.B rfudaemon
sends
.B rfuadmin 
the
.BR fuwarn , 
the resource name, and the number of seconds in
which the forced unmount will occur.
.TP 
.B lastumsg
The local machine wants to stop the
.B rfudaemon 
.RB ( rfstop (8)).
This causes
.B rfudaemon 
to exit.
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rfstart (8),
.BR rfstop  (8),
.BR rfuadmin (8)
