.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)rmt.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\"
.TH RMT 8C "26 May 1988"
.SH NAME
rmt \- remote magtape protocol module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/rmt
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rmt command"  ""  "\fLrmt\fP \(em remote magtape protocol server"
.IX  "remote magtape protocol server"  ""  "remote magtape protocol server \(em \fLrmt\fP"
.B rmt
is a program used by the remote dump and restore programs
in manipulating a magnetic tape drive through an interprocess
communication connection.
.B rmt
is normally started up with an
.BR rexec (3N)
or
.BR rcmd (3N)
call.
.LP
The
.B rmt
program accepts requests specific to the manipulation of
magnetic tapes, performs the commands, then responds with
a status indication.  All responses are in
.SM ASCII
and in one of two forms.
Successful commands have responses of
.IP
.BI A number\en
.LP
where
.I number
is an
.SM ASCII
representation of a decimal number.
Unsuccessful commands are responded to with
.IP
.BI E error-number \en error-message \en
.LP
where
.I error-number
is one of the possible error
numbers described in
.BR intro (2)
and
.I error-message
is the corresponding error string as printed
from a call to
.BR perror (3).
The protocol is comprised of the
following commands:
.RS
.TP 15
.B S
Return the status of the open device, as
obtained with a
.SB MTIOCGET
.B ioctl
call.  If the operation was successful,
an \*(lqack\*(rq is sent with the size of the
status buffer, then the status buffer is
sent (in binary).
.TP
.BI C device
Close the currently open device.  The
.I device
specified is ignored.
.TP
.BI I operation \en count \en
Perform a
.SB MTIOCOP
.BR ioctl (2)
command using the specified parameters.
The parameters are interpreted as the
.SM ASCII
representations of the decimal values to place in the
.I mt_op
and
.I mt_count
fields of the structure used in the
.B ioctl
call.  The return value is the
.I count
parameter when the operation is successful.
.TP
.BI L whence \en offset \en
Perform an
.BR lseek (2V)
operation using the specified parameters.
The response value is that returned from the
.B lseek
call.
.TP
.BI O device \en mode \en
Open the specified
.I device
using the indicated
.IR mode .
.I device
is a full pathname and
.I mode
is an
.SM ASCII
representation of a decimal
number suitable for passing to
.BR open (2V).
If a device had already been opened, it is
closed before a new open is performed.
.TP
.BI R count
Read
.I count
bytes of data from the open device.
.B rmt
performs the requested
.BR read (2V)
and responds with
.BI A count-read\en
if the read was
successful; otherwise an error in the
standard format is returned.  If the read
was successful, the data read is then sent.
.TP
.BI W count
Write data onto the open device.
.B rmt
reads
.I count
bytes from the connection, aborting if
a premature
.SM EOF
is encountered.  The response value is that returned from the
.BR write (2V)
call.
.RE
.LP
Any other command causes
.B rmt
to exit.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All responses are of the form described above.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR intro (2),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR lseek (2V),
.BR open (2V),
.BR read (2V),
.BR write (2V),
.BR perror (3),
.BR rcmd (3N),
.BR rexec (3N),
.BR mtio (4),
.BR dump (8),
.BR restore (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
People tempted to use this for a remote file access protocol
are discouraged.

