.\" @(#)savecore.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH SAVECORE 8 "1 July 1990"
.SH NAME
savecore \- save a core dump of the operating system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/savecore
[
.B \-v
]
.I directory
[
.I system-name
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "savecore command"  ""  "\fLsavecore\fP \(em save OS core dump"
.LP
.B savecore
saves a core dump of the kernel (assuming that one was made) and
writes a reboot message in the shutdown log.  It is meant to be called
near the end of the
.B /etc/rc.local
file after the system boots.  However, it is not normally run by
default.  You must edit that file to enable it.
.LP
.B savecore
checks the core dump to be certain it corresponds with the
version of the operating system currently running.  If it does,
.B savecore
saves the core image in the file
.IB directory /vmcore. n
and the kernel's namelist in
.IB directory /vmunix. n\fR.
The trailing
.BI . n
in the pathnames is replaced by a number which grows every time
.B savecore
is run in that directory.
.LP
Before
.B savecore
writes out a core image,
it reads a number from the file
.IR directory\fB/minfree .
This is the minimum number of kilobytes that must remain free
on the filesystem containing
.IR directory .
If there is less free space on the filesystem containing
.I directory
than the number of kilobytes specified in
.BR minfree ,
the core dump is not saved.
If the
.B minfree
file does not exist,
.B savecore
always writes out the core file (assuming that a core dump was taken).
.LP
.B savecore
also logs a reboot message using facility
.SB LOG_AUTH
(see
.BR syslog (3)).
If the system crashed as a result of a panic,
.B savecore
logs the panic string too.
.LP
If the core dump was from a system other than
.BR /vmunix ,
the name of that system must be supplied as
.IR system-name .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-v
Verbose.
Enable verbose error messages from
.BR savecore .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.IB directory /vmcore. n
.TP
.IB directory /vmunix. n
.TP
.IB directory /minfree
.TP
.B /vmunix
the kernel
.TP
.B /etc/rc.local
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR syslog (3),
.BR panic (8S),
.BR sa (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B savecore
can be fooled into thinking a core dump is the wrong size.
.LP
You must run
.B savecore
very soon after booting \(em before the swap space containing the
crash dump is overwritten by programs currently running.
.LP
Core images produced by 
\s-1SPARC\s0station1 systems,
and from machines with discontiguous physical memory,
are sparse and contain holes.
For example,
a core image of an 8 megabyte \s-1SPARC\s0station 1
might contain 3 to 4 megabytes of useful information,
and thus only occupy 3 to 4 megabytes of disk space,
yet contain enough holes to appear to be 36 megabytes in size.
However, copying the core image will manifest the holes,
so that this copy will require 36 megabytes of disk space.
If it is necessary to move a core image, it is strongly
recommended that the core image be compressed with
.BR compress (1)
before the transfer.
The compressed image may later be uncompressed on a system
with sufficient disk space.
