.\" @(#)sendmail.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH SENDMAIL 8 "5 October 1990"
.SH NAME
sendmail \- send mail over the internet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/sendmail
[
.B \-ba
] [
.B \-bd
] [
.B \-bi
] [
.B \-bm
] [
.B \-bp
] [
.B \-bs
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-bt
] [
.B \-bv
] [
.B \-bz
]
.if t .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-C file
] [
.BI \-d X
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-F fullname
] [
.BI \-f name
] [
.BI \-h N
] [
.B \-n
] [
.BI \-o "x value"
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
\fB\-q\fR[
.I time
] ]
.if t .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-r name
] [
.BI \-R string
] [
.B \-t
] [
.B \-v
] [
.IR address " .\|.\|. ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "sendmail command"  ""  "\fLsendmail\fP \(em mail delivery system"
.IX  "mail delivery server" "" "mail delivery server \(em \fLsendmail\fP"
.B sendmail
sends a message to one or more
people,
routing the message over whatever networks are necessary.
.B sendmail
does internetwork forwarding as
necessary
to deliver the message to the correct place.
.LP
.B sendmail
is not intended as a user interface
routine;
other programs provide user-friendly front ends;
.B sendmail
is used only to deliver pre-formatted
messages.
.LP
With no flags,
.B sendmail
reads its standard input up to an
.SM EOF\s0,
or a line with a single dot
and sends a copy of the letter found there
to all of the addresses listed.
It determines the network to use
based on the syntax and contents of the addresses.
.LP
Local addresses are looked up in the local
.BR aliases (5)
file, or by using the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0),
and aliased appropriately.
In addition, if there is a
.B \&.forward
file in a recipient's  home directory,
.B sendmail
forwards a copy of each message to the list of recipients that
file contains.  Aliasing can be prevented by preceding the address
with a backslash.
Normally the sender is not included in alias expansions, for example,
if `john' sends to `group', and `group'
includes `john' in the expansion,
then the letter will not be delivered to `john'.
.LP
.B sendmail
will also route mail directly to other known hosts in a local
network.  The list of hosts to which mail is directly sent is
maintained in the file
.BR /usr/lib/mailhosts .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-ba
Go into
\s-1ARPANET\s0
mode.  All input lines must end with a
.SM LINEFEED\s0,
and all messages will be generated with a
.SM CR-LF
at the end.  Also, the ``From:'' and ``Sender:''
fields are examined for the name of the sender.
.TP
.B \-bd
Run as a daemon, waiting for incoming
.SM SMTP
connections.
.TP
.B \-bi
Initialize the alias database.
.TP
.B \-bm
Deliver mail in the usual way (default).
.TP
.B \-bp
Print a summary of the mail queue.
.TP
.B \-bs
Use the
\s-2SMTP\s0
protocol as described in
.SM RFC
821.  This flag implies all the operations of the
.B \-ba
flag that are compatible with
\s-2SMTP\s0.
.TP
.B \-bt
Run in address test mode.
This mode reads addresses and shows the steps in parsing;
it is used for debugging configuration tables.
.TP
.B \-bv
Verify names only \(em do not try to collect or deliver a message.
Verify mode is normally used for validating users or mailing lists.
.TP
.B \-bz
Create the configuration freeze file.
.TP
.BI \-C file
Use alternate configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-d X
Set debugging value to
.IR X .
.TP
.BI \-F fullname
Set the full name of the sender.
.TP
.BI \-f name
Sets the name of the ``from'' person (that is, the sender of the mail).
.B \-f
can only be used by ``trusted'' users (who are
listed in the config file).
.TP
.BI \-h N
Set the hop count to
.IR N .
The hop count is incremented every time the mail is processed.
When it reaches a limit, the mail is returned with an error message,
the victim of an aliasing loop.
.TP
.BI \-M id
Attempt to deliver the queued message with message-id
.BR id .
.TP
.B \-n
Do not do aliasing.
.TP
.BI \-o x\|value
Set option
.I x
to the specified
.IR value .
Options are described below.
.TP
.BI \-q\fR[ time]
Processed saved messages in the queue at given intervals.
If
.I time
is omitted, process the queue once.
.I time
is given as a tagged number, with
.B s
being seconds,
.B m
being minutes,
.B h
being hours,
.B d
being days, and
.B w
being weeks.
For example,
.B \-q1h30m
or
.B \-q90m
would both set the timeout to one hour thirty minutes.
.TP
.BI \-r name
An alternate and obsolete form of the
.B \-f
flag.
.TP
.BI \-R string
Go through the queue of pending mail and attempt to deliver any
message with a recipient containing the specified string.  This is
useful for clearing out mail directed to a machine which has been
down for awhile.
.TP
.B \-t
Read message for recipients.
``To:'', ``Cc:'', and ``Bcc:''
lines will be scanned for people to send to.
The ``Bcc:'' line will be deleted before transmission.
Any addresses in the argument list will be suppressed.
.TP
.B \-v
Go into verbose mode.
Alias expansions will be announced, etc.
.SH "PROCESSING OPTIONS"
.LP
There are also a number of processing options that may be set.
Normally these will only be used by a system administrator.
Options may be set either on the command line using the
.B \-o
flag or in the configuration file.
These are described in detail in the
\fIInstallation and Operation Guide\fP\|.
The options are:
.TP
.BI A file
Use alternate alias file.
.TP
.B c
On mailers that are considered ``expensive'' to connect to,
do not initiate immediate connection.  This requires queueing.
.TP
.BI d x
Set the delivery mode to
.BR x .
Delivery modes are
.B i
for interactive (synchronous) delivery,
.B b
for background (asynchronous) delivery, and
.B q
for queue only \(em that is, actual delivery is done
the next time the queue is run.
.TP
.B D
Run
.BR newaliases (8)
to automatically rebuild the alias database, if necessary.
.TP
.BI e x
Set error processing to mode
.BR x .
Valid modes are
.B m
to mail back the error message,
.B w
to ``write'' back the error message
(or mail it back if the sender is not logged in),
.B p
to print the errors on the terminal (default),
`q' to throw away error messages (only exit status is returned),
and `e' to do special processing for the BerkNet.
If the text of the message is not mailed back by modes
.B m
or
.B w
and if the sender is local to this machine,
a copy of the message is appended to the file
.B dead.letter
in the sender's home directory.
.TP
.BI F mode
The mode to use when creating temporary files.
.TP
.B f
Save
.SM UNIX\s0-system-style
``From'' lines at the front of messages.
.TP
.BI g N
The default group
.SM ID
to use when calling mailers.
.TP
.BI H file
The
.SB SMTP
help file.
.TP
.B i
Do not take dots on a line by themselves as a message terminator.
.TP
.BI L n
The log level.
.TP
.B m
Send to ``me'' (the sender) also if I am in an alias expansion.
.TP
.B o
If set, this message may have old style headers.
If not set, this message is guaranteed to have new style headers
(that is, commas instead of spaces between addresses).
If set, an adaptive algorithm is used that will correctly
determine the header format in most cases.
.TP
.BI Q queuedir
Select the directory in which to queue messages.
.TP
.BI r timeout
The timeout on reads; if none is set,
.B sendmail
will wait forever for a mailer.
.TP
.BI S file
Save statistics in the named file.
.TP
.B s
Always instantiate the queue file,
even under circumstances where it is not strictly necessary.
.TP
.BI T time
Set the timeout on messages in the queue to the specified time.
After sitting in the queue for this amount of time,
they will be returned to the sender.
The default is three days.
.TP
.BI t stz,dtz
Set the name of the time zone.
.TP
.BI u N
Set the default user id for mailers.
.LP
If the first character of the user name is a vertical bar,
the rest of the user name is used as the name of a program
to pipe the mail to.
It may be necessary to quote the name of the user to keep
.B sendmail
from suppressing the blanks from between arguments.
.LP
.B sendmail
returns an exit status describing what it
did.
The codes are defined in
.B sysexits.h
.ta 3n +\w'EX_UNAVAILABLE'u+3n
.de XX
.ti \n(.iu
..
.in +\w'EX_UNAVAILABLE'u+6n
.XX
	\s-1EX_OK\s0	Successful completion on all addresses.
.XX
	\s-1EX_NOUSER\s0	User name not recognized.
.XX
	\s-1EX_UNAVAILABLE\s0	Catchall meaning necessary resources
were not available.
.XX
	\s-1EX_SYNTAX\s0	Syntax error in address.
.XX
	\s-1EX_SOFTWARE\s0	Internal software error,
including bad arguments.
.XX
	\s-1EX_OSERR\s0	Temporary operating system error,
such as \*(lqcannot fork\*(rq.
.XX
	\s-1EX_NOHOST\s0	Host name not recognized.
.XX
	\s-1EX_TEMPFAIL\s0	Message could not be sent immediately,
but was queued.
.LP
If invoked as
.BR newaliases ,
.B sendmail
rebuilds the alias database.  If invoked as
.BR mailq ,
.B sendmail
prints the contents of the mail queue.
.SH FILES
Except for
.BR /etc/sendmail.cf ,
these pathnames are all specified in
.BR /etc/sendmail.cf .
Thus, these pathnames are only approximations.
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/aliases
raw data for alias names
.TP
.B /etc/aliases.dir
.TP
.B /etc/aliases.pag
data base of alias names
.TP
.B /etc/sendmail.cf
configuration file
.TP
.B /etc/sendmail.fc
frozen configuration
.TP
.B /etc/sendmail.st
collected statistics
.TP
.B /usr/bin/mail
to deliver local mail
.TP
.B /usr/bin/uux
to deliver uucp mail
.TP
.B /usr/lib/mailhosts
list of hosts to which mail can be sent directly
.TP
.B /usr/lib/sendmail.hf
help file
.TP
.B /var/spool/mqueue/*
temp files and queued mail
.TP
.B ~/.forward
list of recipients for forwarding messages
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR biff (1),
.BR bin-mail (1),
.BR mail (1),
.BR aliases (5)
.BR newaliases (8),
.LP
.TX ADMIN
.LP
Su, Zaw-Sing, and Jon Postel,
.IR "The Domain Naming Convention for Internet User Applications" ,
.SM RFC
819,
Network Information Center,
.SM SRI
International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
August 1982.
.LP
Postel, Jon,
.IR "Simple Mail Transfer Protocol" ,
.SM RFC
821,
Network Information Center,
.SM SRI
International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
August 1982.
.LP
Crocker, Dave,
.I Standard for the Format of
.I
.SM ARPA\s0-Internet
.IR "Text Messages" ,
.SM RFC
822,
Network Information Center,
.SM SRI
International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
August 1982.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
