.\" @(#)shutdown.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH SHUTDOWN 8 "1 July 1990"
.SH NAME
shutdown \- close down the system at a given time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/shutdown
[
.B \-fhknr
]
.I time
[
.I warning-message
\&.\|.\|.
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "shutdown command"  ""  "\fLshutdown\fP \(em shut down multiuser operation"
.LP
.B shutdown
provides an automated procedure to notify users when the
system is to be shut down.
.I time
specifies when
.B shutdown
will bring the system down; it may be the word
.B now
(indicating an immediate shutdown),
or it may specify a future time in one of two formats:
.BI + number
and
.IB hour : min.
The first form brings the system down in
.I number
minutes, and the second brings the system down
at the time of day indicated in 24-hour notation.
.LP
At intervals that get closer as the apocalypse approaches,
warning messages are displayed at terminals of all logged-in users,
and of users who have remote mounts on that machine.
Five minutes before shutdown,
or immediately if shutdown is in less than 5 minutes,
logins are disabled by creating
.B /etc/nologin
and writing a message there.
If this file exists when a user attempts to log in,
.BR login (1)
prints its contents and exits.  The file is removed just before
.B shutdown
exits.
.LP
At shutdown time a message is written to the system log daemon,
.BR syslogd (8),
containing the time of shutdown,
the instigator of the shutdown, and the reason.
Then a terminate signal is sent to
.BR init ,
which brings the system down to single-user mode.
.LP
The time of the shutdown and the warning message are placed in
.BR /etc/nologin ,
which should be used to inform the users as to when the system
will be back up, and why it is going down (or anything else).
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
As an alternative to the above procedure, these options can be
specified:
.TP
.B \-f
Shut the system down in the manner of
.B fasthalt
(see
.BR fastboot (8)),
so that when the system is rebooted,
the file systems are not checked.
.TP
.B \-h
Execute
.BR halt (8).
.TP
.B \-k
Simulate shutdown of the system. Do not actually shut down the system.
.TP
.B \-n
Prevent the normal
.BR sync (2)
before stopping.
.TP
.B \-r
Execute
.BR reboot (8).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/nologin
tells login not to let anyone log in
.TP
.B /etc/xtab
list of remote hosts that have mounted this host
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR login (1),
.BR sync (2),
.BR fastboot (8),
.BR halt (8),
.BR reboot (8),
.BR syslogd (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Only allows you to bring the system down between
\*(lqnow\*(rq and 23:59 if
you use the absolute time for shutdown.
