.\" @(#)start_applic.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new from ecd 4.0.x
.TH START_APPLIC 8 "10 March 1989"
.SH NAME
start_applic \- generic application startup procedures
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.B /usr/etc/start_applic
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "start_applic" "" "\fLstart_applic\fP \(em Generic Application Startup"
.LP
.B start_applic
is a short generic shell script that
can be copied or symbolically linked into either
.BI /vol/local/bin/ application
or
.BI /usr/local/bin/ application .
When invoked as
.IR application ,
an application installed as described below will be correctly invoked
on systems of any supported processor architecture.
Installing
.B start_applic
(or a customized version of it) in one of these locations
ensures that no user's or system's environment
needs to be modified just to run the application.
Applications are stored in a single tree which is 
not shared with any other applications.
This tree may be available on different systems in different places; if
the application needs to reference its distribution tree, this should be
determined from the
.IR application _\s-1ROOT\s0
environment variable.
.LP
The application startup script arranges that the
.SM PATH
and
.IR application _\s-1ROOT\s0
environment variables are set correctly while the application is running.
If the application's distribution tree (placed into
.BI /vol/ application
or
.BI /usr/local/ application )
does not have an executable binary with the name of the application
(for example,
.BI /vol/ application /bin. arch/application ),
then
.B start_applic
can not be used, and a customized application startup script must be
used instead.
Such scripts must also allow users to invoke the application from systems
of any architecture, without requiring them to customize their own
environments.
.LP
Note that there are two contrasting models of software installation.
The
.B heterogeneous model
assumes general availability of the software,
and solves the \*(lqwhich binaries to use\*(rq
problem with no administrative overhead.
The
.B homogeneous model
assumes very limited availability of software, requires
administrative procedures to ensure that
.B /usr/local
only contains binaries of the local architecture, and does not 
really account for networked installations.
It is easier to add support for additional
architectures using a heterogeneous
network model of software installation from the beginning.
.SS Heterogeneous Networked Installations
.LP
Applications available on the network are available through
.BI /vol/ application
and exported either to all systems or just to selected ones,
as licensing restrictions allow.
The export point is
.BI /export/vol/ application ,
which is a symbolic link to the actual
installation point, typically the
.BI /files/vol/ application
directory.
All subdirectories not explicitly tagged with a
processor architecture are
shared among all processor architectures; thus while the
.RB .\|.\|. /bin.sun386
and
.RB .\|.\|. /lib.sun386
subdirectories contain, respectively, binaries and libraries executable
only on systems of the Sun386i architecture, the
.RB .\|.\|. /bin
directory contains executables that run on any
architecture (typically using an interpreter such as
.BR /bin/sh ),
and the
.RB .\|.\|. /etc
directory only contains sharable configuration files.
.SS Homogeneous Single Machine Installations
.LP
Applications available only on a specific machine and its boot clients
of the same architecture are installed into
.BI /usr/local/ application .
This directory supports only a single architecture, so
.BI /usr/local/ application /bin
contains binaries executable only on the local architecture, and
.BI /usr/local/ application /lib
contains libraries executable only on the local architecture.
Any sharable files are grouped in
.BI /usr/local/ application /share .
.LP
To install an application onto a boot server
to serve boot clients with other architectures,
place the application in
.BI /usr/local/ application
on the clients, as described above.
The installation point (on the server)
for application binaries of architecture
.I arch
is
.BI /export/local/ arch/application .
When the architecture is the server architecture,
this case is identical with the one above.
.SS Other Installations
.LP
Smaller applications (of only one or two files) may be installed into
the appropriate
.BI /vol/local/bin. arch
directory, or possibly into
.BI /export/local/ arch /bin .
These directories are in user's default paths, so the application
does not need to be registered using
.BR start_applic .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BI /files<n>/vol/ application
.TP
.BI /export/vol/ application
.TP
.BI /vol/ application
.TP
.BI /vol/ application /bin. arch/ application
.TP
.BI /usr/local/ application
.TP
.BI /export/local/ arch/application
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR auto.vol (5), 
.BR exports (5),
.BR automount (8), 
.BR exportfs (8) 
.LP
.I Sun386i SNAP Administration
.LP
.I Sun386i Advanced Administration
