.\" @(#)sticky.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH STICKY 8 "2 March 1989"
.SH NAME
sticky \- mark files for special treatment
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "sticky directory"
.IX "NFS and sticky bits"
.LP
The
.I "sticky bit"
(file mode bit 01000, see
.BR chmod (2V))
is used to indicate special treatment
of certain files and directories.
A directory for which the sticky bit is set restricts deletion of
files it contains.  A file in a sticky directory may only be removed or
renamed by a user who has write permission on the directory,
and either owns the file, owns the directory, or is the super-user.
This is useful for directories such as
.BR /tmp ,
which must be publicly writable, but should deny users permission to
arbitrarily delete or rename the files of others.
.LP
If the sticky bit is set on a regular file and no execute bits are set,
the system's page cache will not be used to hold the file's data.
This bit is normally set on swap files of diskless clients so that accesses
to these files do not flush more valuable data from the system's cache.
Moreover,
by default such files are treated as swap files,
whose inode modification times may not necessarily be correctly recorded
on permanent storage.
.LP
Any user may create a sticky directory.
See
.BR chmod
for details about modifying file modes.
.SH BUGS
.LP
.BR mkdir (2V)
will not create a file with the sticky bit set.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /tmp
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chmod (1V),
.BR chmod (2V),
.BR chown (2V),
.BR mkdir (2V)
