.PL RIGHT
.\" @(#)sundiag.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SUNDIAG 8 "15 October 1991"
.SH NAME
sundiag \- SunOS hardware diagnostic program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/diag/sundiag/sundiag
[
.B \-Cmpqtvw
]
[
.BI "\-a | \-h" " hostname"
]
[
.BI "\-o" " option_file"
]
[ 
.BI "\-b" " batch_file"
]
.if t .ti +5n
[
.BI \-k " kernel_name"
]
[
.B \-o
.I saved_options_file
]
.\".if n .ti +.5i
[
.I sunview_arguments
]
.br
.BI /usr/diag/sundiag/ testname
.I testname-specific_arguments
[
.B cprquvdt
]
[
.BR h " hostname"
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is in the
diagnostics
.RI ( "User_Diag" )
software category of SunOS.  Refer to  
.I "Installing SunOS"
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "sundiag" "" "\fLsundiag\fR \(em system diagnostics" ""
.IX diagnostics "system"
.IX "system" "diagnostics"
.LP
Sundiag
is a diagnostic utility that
tests hardware functionality.
At start-up, Sundiag
probes for the hardware installed on
the system under test, and displays test options for
the hardware it detects.
If a hardware device connected
to the system under test is
.I not
detected by 
.BR sundiag ,
then it is not connected properly.
.LP
Only 
super-user
can use
Sundiag . 
.LP
The Sundiag
program
consists of the
.B sundiag
window-based user interface,
along with several binary modules and executable files 
containing the actual test code,
all of which reside in 
.BR /usr/diag/sundiag .
.LP
The Sundiag program can be run from the SunView window
environment, from a 
.BR tty ,
or
individual tests can be run from the command line of
a
C-shell
or
Bourne
shell.
Sundiag cannot be used with the OpenWindows
user interface yet.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Running Sundiag in SunView or tty Mode"
.LP
The following options are available when Sundiag is 
run from the SunView window environment, or
a
.B tty
interface.
.TP
.B \-C
Redirect the console output from any existing console
window to the
.B sundiag 
console sub-window. If you are using the
.B tty
interface, the console
message is 
displayed in the message line of the status screen.
.TP
.B \-m 
Create any missing device files for
the devices found during the kernel probe.
.B sundiag
uses the same major/minor device numbers and permissions
declared in
.BR /dev/\s-1MAKEDEV\s+1 .
.TP
.B \-p
Skip the Sundiag kernel probe for devices.  If this argument is
specified, Sundiag only runs the user-defined tests it finds in
.BR .usertest .
.TP
.B \-q
Automatically quit the
Sundiag program when testing stops.  This option
is 
designed for use in
.BR sh (1)
or
.BR csh (1)
shell scripts,
and can only be issued from a
command 
line.
.TP
.B \-t
Run
.B sundiag
in 
.B tty
mode.
.TP
.B \-v
Suppress Sundiag start-up messages, so they do
not interfere with the display when SunView windows
come up.
This argument is used in your
.B .sunview
file.
.TP
.B \-w
Write the system hardware configuration to the 
.B /usr/adm/sundiaglog/sundiag.conf
file.
.TP
.BI \-a " hostname"
Run 
.B sundiag
in automated test mode. This option requires special
Sun automated test equipment and is intended for use
by Sun manufacturing.
.TP
.BI "\-h" " hostname"
Run Sundiag remotely.  Specialized instructions are
required; see the
.TX SUNDIAG
for details.
.TP
.BI \-o " options_file"
Use the 
.I options_file
to restore options. 
The default option file is 
.BR \.sundiag .
.B \.sundiag 
is used if the
.B \-o 
option is not used and
if the default file exists.
.bp
.TP
.BI "\-b" " batch_file"
Run Sundiag in batch mode.
.TP
.BI \-k " kernel_name"
Specify the customized kernel name that was used to boot
the system.
The default kernel name is
.BR /vmunix .
The performance monitor is disabled when
this option is specified,
since it depends upon
.BR rstadt (8C).
.BR rstadt (8C),
in turn, relies on
.B /vmunix
as the kernel name.
.TP
.I sunview_arguments
Refer to 
.BR sunview (1)
for examples of generic tool arguments that may
be used with
.BR sundiag .
.SS "Running Sundiag Tests from a Command Line"
.LP
The following options are available when running individual 
Sundiag tests from a command line (\(lqstandard arguments\(rq).
.TP
.B c
Create a core dump file if the 
system under test
crashes.
.TP
.B p
Skip any test loops.
.TP
.B r
Continue testing after an error has occurred.
The test
continues with the next test sequence instead of exiting.
.TP
.B q
Run a faster, abbreviated
version of the test, if it
exists.
.TP
.B u
Display information on how to run the
test.  It shows three parts:
command line usage, 
standard arguments and routine specific arguments. 
.TP
.B v
Display verbose
messages regarding the test. These
messages tell you more 
about the testing process that
is going on.  This mode is more valuable
for some 
tests than others; graphics tests only return start and stop
messages/failures.
.TP
.B d
Display debug messages from the test. These messages
provide more 
sophisticated information (mainly useful for test programmers). 
.TP
.B t
Display messages which
allow you to trace down function
calls and the 
sequences being used by the
test code for some of the tests.
.TP
.BI "h" " hostname"
Specify 
.I hostname
to receive system messages regarding 
this test.
.SH USAGE
.SS "Running the Sundiag Program from SunView"
When
.B sundiag
is started from the SunView window environment,
it brings up its own window with four 
subwindows:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
A test status panel on the upper left of the 
screen, which shows the test results.
.TP
\(bu
A performance monitor in the upper middle of the
screen, which tracks system activity levels.
.TP
\(bu
A control panel on the upper right of the screen,
which displays the hardware
available for test.
Select the hardware to be
tested by clicking the left mouse
button in the small boxes next to each
of the
hardware items.
A \(lqcheck-mark\(rq
will appear in the box next to the
tests which have been selected for test.
Most hardware items have option menus
for changing test parameters.
The option menus can be opened by
clicking the left mouse button
on the
.B Option
button
to the right of each hardware item.
.TP
\(bu
A console window on the lower right of the
screen, which displays system and error messages.
.RE
.LP
There are also some popup frames, 
including a text frame for viewing 
.B sundiag
and system log files.
.SS "Running the Sundiag Program from a tty Interface"
.LP
.B sundiag
can be run from a terminal,
by specifying the
.B "\-t"
option 
.RB ( tty " mode)"
when Sundiag is started.
In
.B tty
mode,
Sundiag
emulates the window interface on a
terminal screen.  The tests
and test options available
in the window system are also available
in
.B tty
mode.
Commands and options are shown in brackets at
the top of the
.B tty
screen, and are typed in at the command line on the 
bottom of the screen.
.LP
When executed from a terminal, 
.B sundiag 
uses 
.BR curses (3V)
to simulate subwindows on the screen. 
.SS "Running Individual Sundiag Tests from a Command Line"
.LP
Sundiag tests can be run individually
from a shell command line using the
syntax explained above in the \s-1SNOPSIS\s+1 and
\s-1OPTIONS\s+1 sections.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 40
.B "/var/adm/sundiaglog/options/.sundiag"
start-up option file
.TP
.B "/usr/diag/sundiag/.usertest"
user-defined test description file
.TP
.B "/var/adm/sundiaglog/sundiag.info"
Sundiag status log file
.TP
.B "/var/adm/sundiaglog/sundiag.err"
Sundiag status error file
.TP
.B "/var/adm/messages.*"
SunOS system log
.TP
.B /dev/MAKEDEV
.PD
.br
.ne 5
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sunview (1),
.BR curses (3V),
.BR rstatd (8C)
.LP
.TX INSTALL
.br
.TX SUNDIAG
