.\" @(#)swapon.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH SWAPON 8 "31 October 1988"
.SH NAME
swapon \- specify additional device for paging and swapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "/usr/etc/swapon"
.B \-a
.LP
.B "/usr/etc/swapon"
.IR name .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "swapon command"  ""  "\fLswapon\fP \(em specify paging device"
.IX  "swapping devices, specify swapon"  ""  "swapping devices, specify \(em \fLswapon\fP"
.IX  "paging devices, specify swapon"  ""  "paging devices, specify \(em \fLswapon\fP"
.IX  "devices"  "swapping, specify swapon"  ""  "swapping, specify \(em \fLswapon\fP"
.IX  "devices"  "paging, specify swapon"  ""  "paging, specify \(em \fLswapon\fP"
.IX  "additional paging/swapping devices, specify"  ""  "additional paging/swapping devices, specify \(em \fLswapon\fP"
.B swapon
specifies additional devices or files on which
paging and swapping are to take place.
The system begins by swapping and paging on only a single device
so that only one disk is required at bootstrap time.  Calls to
.B swapon
normally occur in the system multi-user initialization file
.B /etc/rc
making all swap devices available, so that the paging and swapping
activity is interleaved across several devices.
.LP
The second form gives individual block devices or files as given
in the system swap configuration table.
The call makes only this space
available to the system for swap allocation.
.LP
Note: \*(lqswap files\*(rq made with
.BR mkfile (8)
can be used as
swap areas over
.SM NFS\s0.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Make available all devices of type
.B swap
in
.BR /etc/fstab .
Using
.B swapon
with the
.B \-a
option is the normal usage.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/sd?b
.TP
.B /dev/xy?b
.TP
.B /dev/xd?b
normal paging devices
.TP
.B /etc/fstab
.TP
.B /etc/rc
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR swapon (2),
.BR fstab (5),
.BR init (8),
.BR mkfile (8)
.SH BUGS
There is no way to stop paging and swapping on a device.
It is therefore not possible to make use of devices which may be
dismounted during system operation.
