.\" @(#)syslogd.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1983,1986 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH SYSLOGD 8 "13 January 1990"
.SH NAME
syslogd \- log system messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/syslogd
[
.B \-d
] [
.BI \-f configfile
] [
.BI \-m " interval"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "syslogd"  ""  "\fLsyslogd\fP \(em system log message daemon"
.IX  "system log daemon \(em \fLsyslog\fR"
.IX  "log files and system log daemon \(em \fLsyslogd\fR"
.B syslogd
reads and forwards system messages to the appropriate log files
and/or users, depending upon the priority of a message and the
system facility from which it originates.  The configuration file
.BR /etc/syslog.conf
(see
.BR syslog.conf (5))
controls where messages are forwarded.
.B syslogd
logs a mark 
.nh
(timestamp)
.hy
message every
.I interval
minutes (default 20) at priority
.SB LOG_INFO
to the facility whose name is given as
.B mark
in the
.B syslog.conf
file.
.LP
A system message consists of a single line of text, which may be
prefixed with a priority code number enclosed in angle-brackets
.RB ( <\|> );
priorities are defined in
.BR sys/syslog.h .
.LP
.B syslogd
reads from the
.SB AF_UNIX
address family socket
.BR /dev/log ,
from an Internet address family socket specified in
.BR /etc/services ,
and from the special device
.B /dev/klog
(for kernel messages).
.LP
.B syslogd
reads the configuration file when it starts up, and again
whenever it receives a
.SM HUP
signal, at which time it also closes all files it has open,
re-reads its configuration file, and then opens only the log
files that are listed in that file.
.B syslogd
exits when it receives a
.SB TERM
signal.
.LP
As it starts up,
.B syslogd
creates the file
.BR /etc/syslog.pid ,
if possible, containing its process
.SM ID
(\s-1PID\s0).
.SH Sun386i DESCRIPTION
.B syslogd
translates messages using
the databases specified on an optional line in the 
.B syslog.conf
as indicated with a
.B translate 
entry.
.LP
The format of these databases is described in
.BR translate (5).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 17
.B \-d
Turn on debugging.
.TP
.BI \-f configfile
Specify an alternate configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-m " interval"
Specify an interval, in minutes, between mark messages.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/syslog.conf
configuration file
.TP
.B /etc/syslog.pid
process
.SM ID
.TP
.B /dev/log
\s-1AF_UNIX\s0
address family  datagram log socket
.TP
.B /dev/klog
kernel log device
.TP
.B /etc/services
network services database
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR logger (1),
.BR syslog (3),
.BR syslog.conf (5),
.BR translate (5)
