.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)tftpd.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\"
.TH TFTPD 8C "7 October 1990"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
tftpd, in.tftpd \- TCP/IP Trivial File Transfer Protocol server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/in.tftpd
.RB [ \-s ]
.RI [ " homedir " ]
.SH Sun386i SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/in.tftpd
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-p ]
.RI [ " homedir " ]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "tftpd daemon" "" "\fLtftpd\fP daemon"
.LP
.B tftpd
is a server that supports the
.SM TCP/IP
Trivial File Transfer Protocol (\s-1TFTP\s0).
This server is normally started by
.BR inetd (8C)
and operates at the port indicated in the
.B tftp
Internet service description in the
.BR /etc/inetd.conf 
file; see
.BR inetd.conf (5)
for details.
The default 
.B /etc/inetd.conf
file starts this server in secure mode, that is, with the
.B \-s
option enabled.
To run unsecure
.BR tftpd ,
modify this file and remove the
.B \-s
option.
.LP 
Before responding to a request, the server attempts to change its
current directory to
.IR homedir ;
the default value is
.BR /tftpboot .
.SH Sun386i DESCRIPTION
The
.B tftpd
daemon
acts as described above, except that it will perform certain filename
mapping operations unless instructed otherwise by the 
.B \-p
command line argument
or when operating in a secure environment.
This mapping affects only
.SM TFTP
boot requests and will not affect requests 
for existing files.
.LP
The semantics of the changes are as follows. Only filenames of the format
.I ip-address
or
.IB ip-address .  arch,
where 
.I ip-address
is the IP address in hex, and 
.I arch
is the hosts's architecture (as returned by the
.BR arch (1)
command),
that do not correspond to files in
.BR /tftpboot ,
are mapped. 
If the address is known through a
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
lookup, any file of the form
.BI /tftpboot/ip-address *
(with or without a suffix) is returned. If there are multiple such files,
any one may be returned. If the
.I ip-address
is unknown (that is if the 
.B ipalloc  (8C)
service says the name service does not know the address), the filename
is mapped as follows: Names without the 
.I arch 
suffix are mapped into the name
.BR pnp.\s-1SUN3\s0 , 
and names with the suffix are mapped into 
\fBpnp. \fIarch\fR. 
That file is returned if it exists.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s
Secure.  When specified, the directory change must succeed; and
the daemon also changes its root directory to
.IR homedir .
This option is set in the default
.B /etc/inetd.conf
file.
.IP
The use of
.B tftp  
does not require an account or password on the remote system.
Due to the lack of authentication information,
.B tftpd
will allow only publicly readable files to be accessed.  Files may be
written only if they already exist and are publicly writable.  Note:
this extends the concept of \*(lqpublic\*(rq to include all users on all
hosts that can be reached through the network; this may not be
appropriate on all systems, and its implications should be considered
before enabling this service.
.PP 
.B tftpd
runs with the user
.SM ID
(\s-1UID\s0)
and group
.SM ID
(\s-1GID\s0)
set to
.BR \-2 ,
under the assumption that no files exist with that owner or group. 
However, nothing checks this assumption or enforces this restriction. 
.SH Sun386i OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p
Disable pnp entirely. Do not map filenames.
.SH Sun386i FILES
.TP 20
.B /tftpboot/*
filenames are IP addresses
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tftp (1C)
.BR inetd (8C),
.BR ipallocd (8C),
.BR netconfig (8C),
.LP
Sollins, K.R., 
.IR "The \s-1TFTP\s0 Protocol (Revision 2)" ,
.SM RFC\s0 783,
Network Information Center,
.SM SRI
International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
June 1981.
.br
.ne 5
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
.SH "Sun386i WARNINGS"
.LP
A request for an
.I ip-address
from a Sun-4 can be satisfied by a file named
.IB ip-address .386
for compatibility with some early Sun-4
.SM PROM 
monitors.
