.\" @(#)tic.8v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH TIC 8V "17 November 1987"
.SH NAME
tic \- terminfo compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR tic
.RB "[ " \-v\c
.RI [ n "] ]"
.RB [ \-c ]
.I filename
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "tic command" "" "\fLtic\fP command"
.LP
.B tic
compiles a
.BR terminfo (5V)
source file into the compiled format.
The results are placed in the directory
.BR /usr/share/lib/terminfo .
The compiled format is used by the
.BR curses (3V)
library.
.LP
Each entry in the file describes the
capabilities of a particular terminal.  When a
.BI use= entry
field is given in a terminal entry,
.B tic
reads in the binary (compiled)
description of the indicated
.I entry
from
.BR /usr/share/lib/terminfo
to duplicate the contents of that entry within the one being
compiled.  However, if an
.I entry
by that name is specified in
.IR filename ,
the entry in that source file is used first.
Also, if a capability is defined in both entries, the definition
in the current entry's source file is used.
.LP
If the environment variable
.SB TERMINFO
is set, that directory is searched and written to instead of
.BR /usr/share/lib/terminfo .
.SH OPTIONS
.HP
.BR \-v [\c
.IR n ]
.br
Verbose.
Display trace information on the standard error.
The optional integer argument is a number from 1 to 10,
inclusive, indicating the desired level of detail.  If
\fIn\f1
is omitted, the default is 1.
.TP
.B \-c
Only check
.I filename
for errors.  Errors in
.B use=
links are not detected.
.SH FILES
.TP 25
.B /usr/share/lib/terminfo/?/\(**
compiled terminal description data base
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fork (2V),
.BR curses (3V),
.BR curses (3V),
.BR malloc (3V),
.BR term (5),
.BR terminfo (5V)
.LP
.SH BUGS
Total compiled entries cannot exceed 4096 bytes.
The name field cannot exceed 1024 bytes.
.LP
When the
.B \-c
option is used,
duplicate terminal names will not be diagnosed; however, when
.B \-c
is not used, they will be.
.LP
For backward compatibility, cancelled capabilities will not be marked
as such within the terminfo binary unless the entry name has a
.RB ` + '
within it.  Such terminal names are only used for inclusion with a
.B use=
field, and typically aren't used for actual terminal names.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Most diagnostic messages produced by
.B tic
are preceded with the approximate line number and the name of
the entry being processed.
.TP
.BI mkdir " name " "returned bad status"
The named directory could not be created.
.TP
.B "File does not start with terminal names in column one"
The first thing seen in the file, after comments, must be
the list of terminal names.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B Token after a seek(2) not \s-1NAMES\s0
Somehow the file being compiled changed during the compilation.
.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B Not enough memory for use_list element
.PD 0
.TP
.B Out of memory
Not enough free memory was available
.RB ( malloc (3V)
failed).
.PD
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI "Can't open " filename
The named file could not be opened or created.
.TP
.BI "Error in writing " filename
The named file could not be written to.
.TP
.BI Can't link " filename " to " filename"
A link failed.
.TP
.BI "Error in re-reading compiled " filename
The compiled file could not be read back in.
.TP
.B Premature \s-1EOF\s0
The current entry ended prematurely.
.TP
.B Backspaced off beginning of line
This error indicates something wrong happened within
.BR tic .
.TP
.BI "Unknown Capability \- " filename
The named invalid capability was found within the file.
.TP
.B Wrong type used for capability .\|.\|.
For example, a string capability was given a numeric value.
.TP
.B Unknown token type
Tokens must be followed by
.RB ` @ '
to cancel,
.RB ` , '
for booleans,
.RB ` # '
for numbers, or
.RB ` = '
for strings.
.PD 0
.TP
.IB name ": bad term name"
.TP
.BI Line " n" ": Illegal terminal name \- " name
.TP
.B "Terminal names must start with a letter or digit"
The given name was invalid. Names must
not contain white space or slashes,
and must begin with a letter or digit.
.PD
.TP
.IB name ": terminal name too long."
An extremely long terminal name was found.
.TP
.IB name ": terminal name too short."
A one-letter name was found.
.TP
.IB name " defined in more than one entry. Entry being used is " name" .
An entry was found more than once.
.TP
.BI "Terminal name " name " synonym for itself"
A name was listed twice in the list of synonyms.
.TP
.B At least one synonym should begin with a letter.
At least one of the names of the terminal should begin with a letter.
.TP
.IB "Illegal character \- " c
The given invalid character was found in the input file.
.TP
.B Newline in middle of terminal name
The trailing comma was probably left off of the list of names.
.TP
.B Missing comma
A comma was missing.
.TP
.B Missing numeric value
The number was missing after a numeric capability.
.TP
.B \s-1NULL\s0 string value
The proper way to say that a string capability does not exist is
to cancel it.
.TP
.B Very long string found.  Missing comma?
Self-explanatory.
.br
.ne 8
.TP
.B Unknown option. Usage is:
An invalid option was entered.
.TP
.B Too many file names.  Usage is:
Self-explanatory.
.TP
.IB name " non-existent or permission denied"
The given directory could not be written into.
.TP
.IB name " is not a directory"
Self-explanatory.
.TP
.IB name ": Permission denied"
Access denied.
.TP
.IB name ": Not a directory"
.B tic
wanted to use the given name as a directory, but it already
exists as a file
.TP
.B \s-1SYSTEM ERROR\s0!! Fork failed!!!
A
.BR fork (2V)
failed.
.TP
.B Error in following up use-links.
Either there is
a loop in the links or they reference non-existent
terminals.  The following is a list of the entries
involved:
.br
.RS
A
.BR terminfo (5V)
entry with a
.BI use= name
capability either referenced a
non-existent terminal called
.I filename
or
.I filename
somehow referred back to the given entry.
.RE
