.\" @(#)tzsetup.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.hw gettimeofday
.TH TZSETUP 8 "17 November 1987"
.SH NAME
tzsetup \- set up old-style time zone information in the kernel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/tzsetup
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "tzsetup command" "" "\fLtzsetup\fP command"
.LP
.B tzsetup
attempts to find the offset from GMT and old-style Daylight Savings Time
correction type (see
.BR gettimeofday (2))
that most closely matches the default time zone for the machine, and
to pass this information to the kernel with a
.B settimeofday (\|)
call (see
.BR gettimeofday (2)).
This is necessary if programs built under releases
of Sun\s-1OS\s0 prior to 4.0 are to be run;
those programs get time zone information from
the kernel using
.BR gettimeofday . 
.LP
If it cannot find the offset from
.SM GMT\s0,
the offset is set to 0; if it
cannot find the Daylight Savings Time correction type, it is set to
.SM
.BR DST_NONE\s0 ,
indicating that no Daylight Savings Time correction is to be
performed.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.BI "tzsetup: Can't open /usr/share/lib/zoneinfo/localtime: " reason
The time zone file for the current time zone could not be opened.
.TP
.BI "tzsetup: Error reading /usr/lib/zoneinfo/localtime: " reason
The time zone file for the current time zone could not be read.
.TP
.B "tzsetup: Two or more time zone types are equally valid \(em no \s-1DST\s0 selected"
There were two or more Daylight Savings Time correction types that
generated results that were equally close to the correct results.
None of them was selected.  Programs built under versions of Sun\s-1OS\s0
prior to 4.0 may not convert dates correctly.
.TP
.B "tzsetup: No old-style time zone type is valid \(em no \s-1DST\s0 selected"
None of the Daylight Savings Time correction types generated results
that were in any way correct; none of them was selected.
Programs built under versions of Sun\s-1OS\s0
prior to 4.0 may not convert dates correctly.
.TP
.B "tzsetup: Warning: No old-style time zone type is completely valid"
None of the Daylight Savings Time correction types generated results
that were completely correct; the best of them was selected.  Programs built
under versions of Sun\s-1OS\s0 prior to 4.0 may not convert dates correctly.
.TP
.B "tzsetup: Can't set time zone"
.B tzsetup
was run by a user other than the super-user; only the super-user may
change the kernel's notion of the current time zone.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gettimeofday (2),
.BR tzfile (5),
.BR zic (8)
