.\" @(#)uid_allocd.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; 
.TH UID_ALLOCD 8C "6 October 1989"
.SH NAME
uid_allocd, gid_allocd \- UID and GID allocator daemons
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.B /usr/etc/rpc.uid_allocd
.br
.B /usr/etc/rpc.gid_allocd
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "uid_allocd" "" "\fLuid_allocd\fP \(em UID Allocator Daemon"
.IX "gid_allocd" "" "\fLgid_allocd\fP \(em GID Allocator Daemon"
.LP
The
.SM UID
(or
.SM GID\s0)
allocator will temporarily allocate an unused
.SM UID
(or
.SM GID\s0)
for use by account administration tools.
It maintains a cache of
.SM UID\s0s
(\s-1GID\s0s) that have been allocated
by potentially multiple tools (or instances of tools) in
a distributed system, so that they can create accounts (or groups)
concurrently.
It also provides the ability to safely enter a 
.SM UID
(\s-1GID\s0) into the
cache which was allocated using some other method, such as
manually by an administrator; and
the ability to delete entries from the cache.
Entries in this cache persist for at least
an hour even through system crashes.
.LP
These allocators are available on the system which contains
the master copy of the list of 
.SM UID\s0s
(or 
.SM GID\s0).
Since this list is currently maintained using the
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0),
the service is available on the master of the
.B passwd.byuid
.RB ( group.bygid )
.SM NIS
map.
The service could be provided using a 
.SM UID
database service other than the
.SM NIS
service.
.LP
This implementation uses 
.SM DES
authentication (the Sun Secure 
.SM RPC
protocol) to restrict access to this function.
The only clients privileged to allocate 
.SM UID\s0s
(\s-1GID\s0s) are those whose
net
.SM ID\s0s
are in the
.I accounts
group (fixed at 
.SM GID\s0 11).
All machine
.SM ID\s0s
are allowed to allocate 
.SM UID\s0s
(\s-1GID\s0s).
.LP
If the file
.B /etc/ugid_alloc.range
exists, the allocator only allocates 
.SM UID\s0s
(\s-1GID\s0s) in the range listed there.
This feature is intended to be used by sites which have
multiple 
.SM NIS
domains on their networks; each 
.SM NIS
domain would be assigned a unique range of 
.SM UID\s0s
(\s-1GID\s0s).
If the file exists, and the local 
.SM NIS
domain is not explicitly assigned a unique range of 
.SM UID\s0s
or 
.SM GID\s0,
none will be allocated.
Without a mechanism to ensure that 
.SM UID\s0s
are uniquely assigned between 
.SM NIS
domains that share resources, normal
.SM NFS
security mechanisms (excluding Secure
.SM NFS\s0)
may fail to serve
as an advisory security mechanism.
Common alternative methods for ensuring 
.SM UID
uniqueness
include using a function of some preexisting identifier
such as an employee number, or using a single
.SM NIS
domain
for the entire site.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BI /var/yp/ domainname /passwd.byuid.{dir,pag}
.TP
.BI /var/yp/ domainname /group.bygid.{dir,pag}
.TP
.BI /var/yp/ domainname /netid.byname.{dir,pag}
.TP
.B /etc/uid_alloc.cache
.TP
.B /etc/gid_alloc.cache
.TP
.B /etc/ugid_alloc.range
.TP
.B /usr/include/rpcsvc/uid_alloc.x
.TP
.B /usr/include/rpcsvc/gid_alloc.x
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR snap (1),
.BR ugid_alloc.range (5),
.BR logintool (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Using 
.SM UID
(\s-1GID\s0) ranges does not solve the problem that two different
machines, or groups of machines, may assign different meaning to a given 
.SM UID
(\s-1GID\s0).
.LP
The current implementation of the daemon is tuned towards small
lists of active 
.SM UID\s0s
(\s-1GID\s0s), both in the
.SM NIS
service and in the cache it maintains.
.br
.ne 5
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
