'\" t
.\" @(#)unconfigure.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH UNCONFIGURE 8 "24 February 1988"
.SH NAME
unconfigure \- reset the network configuration for a Sun386i system
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.B /usr/etc/unconfigure
[
.B \-y
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "unconfigure command" "" "\fLunconfigure\fP command"
.LP
.B unconfigure
restores most of the system configuration and status
files to the state they were in when delivered by
Sun Microsystems, Inc.
It also deletes all user accounts (including home directories),
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
information, and any
diskless client configurations that were set up.
.LP
After running
.B unconfigure,
a system halts.
Rebooting it to multi-user mode at this point will
start automatic system installation.
.LP
.B unconfigure
is intended for use in the following situations:
.TP 3
\(bu
As one of the final steps in Software Manufacturing.
.TP
\(bu
In systems being set up with temporary configurations,
holding no user accounts or diskless clients.
These will occur during demonstrations and
evaluation trials.
.TP
\(bu
To allow systems that had been used as standalones
to be upgraded to join a network in a role other than
as a master server.  (See instructions later.)
.LP
.B unconfigure
is potentially a dangerous utility; it does not work
unless invoked by the super-user.
As a warning, unless the
.B \-y
option is passed, it will require confirmation that all
user files and system software configuration information
is to be deleted.
.LP
This utility is
.I not
recommended for routine use of any sort.
.SS "Resetting Temporary Configurations"
If users need to set up and tear down configurations,
.B unconfigure
can be used to restore the system to an essentially
as-manufactured state.
The main concern here is that user accounts will be deleted,
so this should not be done casually.
.LP
To reset a temporary configuration, just become the super-user
and invoke
.B unconfigure.
.SS "Upgrading Standalones to Network Clients"
Systems that are going to be networked should be networked from
the very first, if at all possible.
This eliminates whole classes of compatibility problems, such as
pathnames and (in particular) user account clashes.
.LP
Automatic system installation directly supports upgrading a single
standalone system to an
.SM NIS
master, and joining any number of
unused systems (or systems upon which
.B unconfigure
has been run) into a network.
.LP
However, in the situation where standalone systems that have
been used extensively are
to be joined to a network,
.B unconfigure
can be used in conjunction with automatic system installation
by a knowledgeable super-user to change a system's
configuration from standalone to network client.
This procedure is not recommended for use by inexperienced
administrators.
.LP
The following procedure is not needed unless user accounts or other data
need to be preserved; it is intended to ensure that every
.SM UID
and
.SM GID
is changed so as not to clash with those in use on the network.
It must be applied to each system that is being upgraded from a
standalone to a network client.
.LP
The procedure is as follows:
.TP 4
\(bu
Identify all accounts and files that you will want
to save.  If there are none, just run
.B unconfigure
and install the system on the network.
Do not follow the remaining steps.
.TP
\(bu
Copy
.B /etc/passwd
to
.BR /etc/passwd.bak .
.br
.ne 3
.TP
\(bu
Rename all the files (including home directories) so that
they aren't deleted.  (See 
.SB FILES
below.)
These will probably be only in
.BR /export/home .
.TP
\(bu
Run
.B unconfigure
and install the system on the network.
.TP
\(bu
For each account listed in
.B /etc/passwd.bak
that you want to save, follow this procedure:
.RS
.TP 4
\(bu
Create a new account on the network; if the
.SM UID
and
.SM GID
are the same as in
.B /etc/passwd.bak
on the standalone, then skip the next step.
However, be sure that you do not make two different accounts
with the same
.SM UID.
.TP
\(bu
Use the 
.RB ` "chown \-R" '
command to change the ownership of the home directories.
.TP
\(bu
You may need to rename the files you just chowned above, for example
to ensure that they are the user's home directory.
This may involve updating the
.BR auto.home (5)
and
.BR auto.home (5)
.SM NIS
maps, as well.
.RE
.TP
\(bu
Delete
.BR /etc/passwd.bak .
.SH FILES
.LP
.B unconfigure
deletes the following files, if they are present,
replacing some of them with the distribution version if
one is supposed to exist:
.sp .5
.TS
lfB lfB lfB lfB .
/etc/.rootkey	/etc/ethers	/etc/localtime	/etc/publickey
/etc/auto.home	/etc/exports	/etc/net.conf	/etc/sendmail.cf
/etc/auto.vol	/etc/fstab	/etc/netmasks	/etc/syslog.conf
/etc/bootparams	/etc/group	/etc/networks	/etc/systems
/etc/bootservers	/etc/hosts	/etc/passwd	/single/ifconfig
/var/sysex/*	
.TE
.LP
and all files in
.B /var/yp
except those distributed with the operating system.
.LP
.B unconfigure
truncates all files in 
.BR /var/adm .
All user home directories in
.B /export/home
are deleted, except those for the default user account
.BR users ,
which is shipped with the operating system.
All diskless client configuration information stored
in
.BR /export/roots ,
.BR /export/swaps ,
and
.B /export/dumps
is deleted.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chgrp (1),
.BR find (1),
.BR group (5),
.BR passwd (5)
.BR adduser (8),
.BR chown (8),
.SH BUGS
.LP
More of the system configuration files should be reset.
.LP
This does not yet support taking a workstation off the network
temporarily, for example, to take it home over the weekend for use as
a standalone, or to move it to another network while traveling.
This should be the default behavior.
.LP
The procedure for upgrading standalones to network clients
should be automated; currently, only upgrading a standalone
to a master server is automated.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
