.\" @(#)uucpd.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH UUCPD 8C "12 June 1988"
.SH NAME
uucpd \- UUCP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/in.uucpd
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I uucp
software  installation  option.   Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "uucpd command"  ""  "\fLuucpd\fP \(em UUCP server"
.IX  "UUCP" "server \(em \fLuucpd\fP"
.IX  servers  uucpd  ""  "\fLuucpd\fP \(em UUCP server"
.LP
.B uucpd
is the server for supporting
.SM UUCP
connections over networks.
.LP
.B uucpd
is invoked by
.BR inetd (8C)
when a
.SM UUCP
connection is established (that is, a connection to the port indicated
in the \*(lquucp\*(rq service specification; see
.BR services (5)),
and executes the following protocol:
.TP
1)
The server prompts with
.BR "login:" .
The
.BR uucico (8C)
process at the other end must supply a username.
.TP
2)
Unless the username refers to an account without a password, the server
then prompts with
.BR "Password:" .
The
.B uucico
process at the other end must supply the password for that account.
.LP
If the username is not valid or is valid but refers to an account that does
not have
.B /usr/lib/uucp/uucico
as its login shell, or if the password is not the correct password for that
account, the connection is dropped.  Otherwise,
.B uucico
is run, with the user
.SM ID\s0,
group
.SM ID\s0,
group set, and home directory for that account, with the environment variables
.SB USER
and
.SB LOGNAME
set to the specified username,
and with a
.B \-u
flag specifying the username.
Entries are made in
.B /var/adm/wtmp
and
.B /var/adm/lastlog
for the username.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/adm/wtmp	
accounting
.TP
.B /var/adm/lastlog
time of last login
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR services (5),
.BR inetd (8C),
.BR uucico (8C)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
All diagnostic messages are returned on the connection, after which the
connection is closed.
.TP
.B user read
An error occurred while reading the username.
.TP
.B passwd read
An error occurred while reading the password.
.TP
.B Login incorect.
The username is invalid or refers to an account with a login shell other than
.BR /usr/lib/uucp/uucico ,
or the password is not the correct password for the account.
