.\" @(#)vmstat.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 6.3 3/15/86
.TH VMSTAT 8 "7 September 1988"
.SH NAME
vmstat \- report virtual memory statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vmstat
[
.B \-cfisS
] [
.I interval
[
.I count
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "vmstat command"  ""  "\fLvmstat\fP \(em display virtual memory statistics"
.B vmstat
delves into the system and normally reports
certain statistics kept about
process, virtual memory, disk, trap and
.SM CPU
activity.
.LP
Without options,
.B vmstat
displays a one-line summary of the virtual memory activity
since the system has been booted.  If
.I interval
is specified,
.B vmstat
summarizes activity over the last
.I interval
seconds.  If a
.I count
is given, the statistics are repeated
.I count
times.
.LP
For example, the following command displays a summary of what the
system is doing every five seconds.
This is a good choice of printing interval since this is how often
some of the statistics are sampled in the system.
.\"others vary every
.\"second, running the output for a while will make it apparent which
.\"are recomputed every second.
.RS
.nf
.ft B
example% vmstat 5
.sp .5v
procs     memory                       page      faults
r b w   avm  fre  re at  pi  po  fr  de  sr x0 x1 x2 x3  in   sy  cs  us  sy  id
2 0 0   918  286   0  0   0   0   0   0    0  1  0   0   0    4  12    5   3   5  91
1 0 0   846  254   0  0   0   0   0   0    0  6  0   1   0   42 153  31  7  40  54
1 0 0   840  268   0  0   0   0   0   0    0  5  0   0   0   27 103  25  8  26  66
1 0 0   620  312   0  0   0   0   0   0    0  6  0   0   0   26  76\^  25  6  27  \^67
.sp .5v
.SM CTRL-C
example%
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
The fields of
.BR vmstat 's
display are:
.TP 8
.B procs
Report the number of processes in each of the three following states:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 8
.B r
in run queue
.TP
.B b
blocked for resources (i/o, paging, etc.)
.TP
.B w
runnable or short sleeper (< 20 secs) but swapped
.RE
.PD
.TP 8
.B memory
Report on usage of virtual and real memory.
Virtual memory is considered active if it belongs to processes which
are running or have run in the last 20 seconds.
.\"A ``page'' here is 2048 bytes.
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 8
.B avm
number of active virtual Kbytes
.TP
.B fre
size of the free list in Kbytes
.RE
.PD
.TP 8
.B page
Report information about page faults and paging activity.
The information on each of the following
activities is averaged each five
seconds, and given in units per second.
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 8
.B re
page reclaims \(em but see the
.B \-S
option for how this field is modified.
.TP
.B at
number of attaches \(em but see the
.B \-S
option for how this field is modified.
.TP
.B pi
kilobytes per second paged in 
.TP
.B po
kilobytes per second paged out 
.TP
.B fr
kilobytes freed per second
.TP
.B de
anticipated short term memory shortfall in Kbytes
.TP
.B sr
pages scanned by clock algorithm, per-second
.RE
.PD
.TP 8
.B disk
Report number of disk operations per
second (this field is system dependent).
For Sun systems, four slots are available for up to four drives: ``x0''
(or ``s0'' for SCSI disks), ``x1'', ``x2'', and ``x3''.
.\"Typically paging will be split across
.\"several of the available drives.
.\"The number under each of these is the unit number.
.TP 8
.B faults
Report trap/interrupt rate averages per second over last 5 seconds.
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 8
.B in
(non clock) device interrupts per second
.TP
.B sy
system calls per second
.TP
.B cs
.SM CPU
context switch rate (switches/sec)
.RE
.PD
.ne 6
.TP 8
.B cpu
Give a breakdown of percentage usage of
.SM CPU
time.
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 8
.B us
user time for normal and low priority processes
.TP
.B sy
system time
.TP
.B id
.SM CPU
idle
.RE
.PD
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
Report cache flushing statistics.  By default, report the total number
of each kind of cache flushed since boot time.  The types are:
user, context, region, segment, page, and partial-page.
.TP
.B \-f
Report on the number of
.B forks
and
.B vforks
since system startup and the number of
pages of virtual memory involved in each
kind of fork.
.TP
.B \-i
Report the number of interrupts per device.
Autovectored interrupts (including the clock) are listed first.
.TP
.B \-s
Display the contents of the
.B sum
structure, giving the total number of several kinds of paging-related
events which have occurred since boot.
.TP
.B \-S
Report on swapping rather than paging activity.
This option will change two fields in
.BR vmstat 's
``paging'' display:  rather than
the ``re'' and ``at'' fields,
.B vmstat
will report ``si'' (swap-ins),
and ``so'' (swap-outs).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/kmem
.TP
.B /vmunix
.PD
.SH BUGS
If more than one autovectored device has the same name, interrupts
are counted for all like-named devices regardless of unit number.
Such devices are listed with a unit number of
.RB ` ? '.
.\"There should be a screen oriented program which combines
.\".B vmstat
.\"and
.\".IR ps (1)
.\"in real time
.\"as well as reporting on other system activity.
