.\" @(#)ypmake.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH YPMAKE 8 "14 December 1987"
.SH NAME
ypmake \- rebuild NIS database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "cd /var/yp ; make"
[
.I map
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ypmake command"  ""  "\fLypmake\fP \(em rebuild NIS database"
.IX  "rebuild NIS database"  ""  "rebuild NIS database \(em \fLypmake\fP"
.IX  "YP"  "rebuild database"  ""  "rebuild database \(em \fLypmake\fP"
.IX  "NIS"  "rebuild database"  ""  "rebuild database \(em \fLypmake\fP"
.LP
The file called
.B Makefile
in
.B /var/yp
is used by
.BR make (1)
to build the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
database.
With no arguments,
.B make
creates
.B dbm
databases for any
.SM NIS
maps that are out-of-date,
and then executes
.BR yppush (8)
to notify slave databases that there has been a change.
.LP
If you supply a
.I map
on the command line,
.B make
will update that map only.
Typing
.B "make passwd"
will create and
.B yppush
the password database (assuming it is out of date).
Likewise,
.B "make hosts"
and
.B "make networks"
will create and
.B yppush
the host and network files,
.B /etc/hosts
and
.BR /etc/networks .
.LP
There are three special variables used by
.BR make :
.SM DIR\s0,
which gives the directory of the source files;
.SM NOPUSH\s0,
which when non-null inhibits doing a
.B yppush
of the new database files;
and
.SM DOM\s0,
used to construct a domain
other than the master's default domain.
The default for
.SM DIR
is
.BR /etc ,
and the default for
.SM NOPUSH
is the null string.
.LP
Refer to
.BR ypfiles (5)
and
.BR ypserv (8)
for an overview of the 
.SM NIS
service.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/yp
.TP
.B /etc/hosts
.TP
.B /etc/networks
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR make (1),
.BR ypfiles (5),
.BR makedbm (8),
.BR yppush (8),
.BR ypserv (8)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
The name Yellow Pages is a registered trademark in the United Kingdom
of British Telecommunications plc,
and may not be used without permission.
