.\" @(#)yppasswdd.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH YPPASSWDD 8C "17 December 1987"
.SH NAME
yppasswdd, rpc.yppasswdd \- server for modifying NIS password file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/rpc.yppasswdd
.I filename
[
.I adjunct_file
]
[
.B \-nogecos
]
[
.B \-noshell
]
[
.B \-nopw
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.B \-m
.I argument1
.I argument2
\&.\|.\|.
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This program is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "yypasswdd command"  ""  "\fLyppasswdd\fP \(em NIS password server"
.IX  servers  yppasswdd  ""  "\fLyppasswdd\fP \(em NIS password server"
.LP
.B yppasswdd
is a server that handles password change requests from
.BR yppasswd (1).
Unless an
.I adjunct_file
is specified,
it changes a password entry in
.IR filename ,
which is assumed to be in the format of
.BR passwd (5).
.I filename
is the password file that provides the basis for the
.I passwd.byname
and
.I passwd.byuid
maps. 
This should not be confused with the servers 
.I /etc/passwd
file which controls access to the server.
In particular this file should not contain an entry for the super user.
.LP
If an
.I adjunct_file
is specified or
.B /etc/security/passwd.adjunct
exists, this file will be changed instead of the
.IR filename .
An entry in
.I filename
or
.I adjunct_file
will only be changed if the password presented by
.BR yppasswd (1)
matches the encrypted password of that entry.
.LP
If the 
.B \-noshell
.B \-nogecos
or
.B \-nopw
options are given then these fields may not be changed remotely
using
.BR chfn ,
.BR chsh ,
or
.BR passwd (1).
.LP
If the
.B \-m
option is given, then after
.I filename
or
.I adjunct_file
is modified, a
.BR make (1)
will be performed in
.IR /var/yp .
Any arguments following the flag will be passed to
.IR make .
.LP
This server is not run by default, nor can it be started up from
.BR inetd (8C).
If it is desired to enable remote password updating for the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0),
then an entry for
.B yppasswdd
should be put in the
.B /etc/rc
file of the host serving as the master for the 
.SM NIS
.B passwd
file.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
If the 
.SM NIS
password file is stored as
.BR /var/yp/passwd ,
then to have password changes propagated immediately,
the server should be invoked as
.RS
.IP
.B /usr/etc/rpc.yppasswdd
.B /var/yp/passwd \-m passwd
.SB DIR\s0=/var/yp
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/yp/Makefile
.TP
.B /etc/security/passwd.adjunct
.TP
.B /etc/rc
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR make (1),
.BR yppasswd (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR passwd.adjunct (5),
.BR ypfiles (5),
.BR inetd (8C),
.BR ypmake (8)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The password file specified to 
.I rpc.yppasswdd
may not be a link.
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.  The name Yellow Pages is a registered
trademark in the United Kingdom of British Telecommunications plc,
and may not be used without permission.
