.\" @(#)yppush.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH YPPUSH 8 "14 December 1987"
.SH NAME
yppush \- force propagation of changed NIS map
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/yp/yppush
[
.B \-v
] [
.B \-d
.I domain
]
.I mapname
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX yppush "" "\fLyppush\fR \(em force propagation of changed NIS map"
.LP
.B yppush
copies a new version of a 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
map from the master
.SM NIS
server to the slave
.SM NIS
servers.
It is normally run only on the master
.SM NIS
server by the
.B Makefile
in
.B /var/yp
after the master databases are changed.
It first constructs a list of
.SM NIS
server hosts by reading the
.SM NIS
map
.B ypservers
within the
.IR domain .
Keys within the map
.B ypservers
are the
.SM ASCII
names of the machines on which the
.SM NIS
servers run.
.LP
A \*(lqtransfer map\*(rq request is sent to the
.SM NIS
server at each host,
along with the information needed by the transfer agent (the program
which actually moves the map) to call back the
.B yppush .
When the attempt has completed (successfully
or not), and the transfer agent has sent
.B yppush
a status message, the results may be printed to stdout.  Messages
are also printed when a transfer is not possible; for
instance when the request message is
undeliverable, or when the timeout period
on responses has expired.
.LP
Refer to
.BR ypfiles (5)
and
.BR ypserv (8)
for an overview of the 
.SM NIS
service.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-d " domain
Specify a
.IR domain .
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose.
This prints messages when
each server is called, and for each response.
If this flag is omitted, only error messages are printed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.HP 20
.BI /var/yp/ domain /ypservers.\c
.BI { dir , pag }
.br
.TP
.B /var/yp
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ypfiles (5),
.BR ypserv (8),
.BR ypxfr (8)
.LP
.SM NIS
protocol specification
.SH BUGS
.LP
In the current implementation (version 2
.SM NIS
protocol), the transfer agent is
.BR ypxfr (8),
which is started by the
.B ypserv
program.  If
.B yppush
detects that it is speaking to a version 1
.SM NIS
protocol
server, it uses the older protocol, sending a version 1
.SM YPPROC_GET
request and issues a message to that effect.
Unfortunately, there is no way of knowing
if or when the map transfer is performed for version 1 servers.
.B yppush
prints a message saying that an \*(lqold-style\*(rq message has been sent.
The system administrator should later check to see that the
transfer has actually taken place.
.SH NOTES
.LP 
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0).
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.  The name Yellow Pages is a registered
trademark in the United Kingdom of British Telecommunications plc,
and may not be used without permission.

