.\" @(#)ypset.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH YPSET 8 "23 August 1989"
.SH NAME
ypset \- point ypbind at a particular server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/yp/ypset
[
.BR \-V1\| | \|\-V2
] [
.B \-d
.I domain
] [
.B \-h
.I host
]
.I server
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX ypset "" "\fLypset\fR \(em direct \fLypbind\fR to a server"
.LP
.B ypset
tells
.B ypbind
to get the
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
for the specified
.I domain
from the
.B ypserv
process running on
.IR server .
If
.I server
is down, or is not running
.BR ypserv ,
this is not discovered until an
.SM NIS
client process tries to
get a binding for the domain.  At this point, the binding set by
.B ypset
is tested by
.BR ypbind .
If
the binding is invalid,
.B ypbind
attempts to rebind for the same domain.
.LP
.B ypset
is useful for binding a client node which is not on a broadcast net,
or is on a broadcast net which is not running an
.SM NIS
server host.
It also is useful for debugging
.SM NIS
client applications, for instance
where an
.SM NIS
map only exists at a single
.SM NIS
server host.
.LP
In cases where several hosts on the local net are supplying
.SM NIS
services, it is possible for
.B ypbind
to rebind to another host even while you attempt to
find out if the
.B ypset
operation succeeded.  For example, you can type:
.RS
.nf
.ft B
example% ypset host1
example% ypwhich
host2
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
which can be confusing.  This is a function of the
.SM NIS
service subsystem's attempt to
load-balance among the available
.SM NIS
servers, and occurs when
.I host1
does not respond to
.B ypbind
because it is not running
.B ypserv
(or is overloaded), and
.IR host2 ,
running
.BR ypserv ,
gets the binding.
.LP
.I server
indicates the
.SM NIS
server to bind to, and can be specified as a name or an
.SM IP
address.  If specified as a name,
.B ypset
attempts to use
.SM NIS
services to resolve the name to an
.SM IP
address.  This works only if
the node has a current valid binding for the domain in question.
In most cases,
.I server
should be specified as an
.SM IP
address.
.LP
Refer to
.BR ypfiles (5)
and
.BR ypserv (8)
for an overview of the 
.SM NIS
service.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-V1
Bind
.I server
for the (old) v.1
.SM NIS
protocol.
.TP
.B \-V2
Bind
.I server
for the (current) v.2
.SM NIS
protocol.
.IP
If no version is supplied,
.BR ypset ,
first attempts to set the domain for the (current) v.2 protocol.
If this attempt fails,
.BR ypset ,
then attempts to set the domain for the (old) v.1 protocol.
.TP
.BI \-h  host
Set ypbind's binding on
.IR host ,
instead of locally.
.I host
can be specified as a name or as an
.SM IP
address.
.TP
.BI \-d  domain
Use
.I domain ,
instead of the default domain.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.BI "Sorry, I couldn't send my rpc message to ypbind on host" " name"
The user is not root, or
.B ypbind
was run without one of the 
.B \-ypset
flags.
See
.BR ypserv (8)
for explanations of the 
.B \-ypset
flags.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ypwhich (1),
.BR ypfiles (5),
.BR ypserv (8)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
The name Yellow Pages is a registered trademark in the United Kingdom
of British Telecommunications plc,
and may not be used without permission.
