.\" @(#)ypsync.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.\" SDR 4279
.TH YPSYNC 8 "10 March 1989"
.SH NAME
ypsync \- collect most up-to-date NIS maps
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/yp/ypsync
[
.B \-r
] [
.B \-u
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "ypsync command" "" "\fLypsync\fR command"  
.LP
.B ypsync
gathers current 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
maps to the local 
.SM NIS
server.
When invoked with no arguments,
it polls all the 
.SM NIS
servers listed in the
.B /etc/ypservers
.SM NIS
map for the maps they serve,
and the order of those maps.
If there are any new maps that the local server does not have,
or if there are maps that are more current than the local server's
copy, it excutes
.BR ypxfr (8)
to transfer those maps to the local server.
.LP
.B ypsync
eliminates the need for
.BR cron (8)
jobs to ensure that 
.SM NIS
map updates are eventually transmitted to all
.SM NIS
servers, and supports different 
.SM NIS
maps having different masters.
It is invoked periodically by
.BR ypserv (8).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-r
When invoked with the
.B \-r
flag,
.B ypsync
re-creates the local
.B /var/yp
directory and databases if needed.
This facility is
used when upgrading servers,
since they can automatically retrieve
.SM NIS
maps without needing manual intervention.  The 
.SM NIS
master of the
.B ypservers
map can also designate new servers, which would
automatically pick up their new maps on reboot.
.TP
.B \-u
When invoked with the
.B \-u
flag,
.B ypsync
updates the list of 
.SM NIS
servers on the master of the
.B ypservers
.SM NIS
map to include the local system if it 
does not already, and then get copies of all the 
.SM NIS
databases.
A user invoking
.B ypsync \-u
may not be root, and must have the
.I networks privilege in the 
.SM NIS
.B group
map.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BI /var/yp/YP .domainname
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ypupdate (3),
.BR ypserv (8),
.BR ypxfr (8)
.LP
.I Sun386i Advanced Administration
.LP
.I System and Network Administration
.SH NOTES
.LP 
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0).
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.  The name Yellow Pages is a registered
trademark in the United Kingdom of British Telecommunications plc,
and may not be used without permission.

