.\" @(#)ypxfr.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH YPXFR 8 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
ypxfr \- transfer NIS map from NIS server to here
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/yp/ypxfr
[
.B \-b
]
[
.B \-c
]
[
.B \-f
]
[
.B \-d
.I domain
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.B \-h
.I host
] [
.B \-s
.I domain
] [
.B \-C
.I tid prog ipadd port
]
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.I mapname
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX ypxfr "" "\fLypxfr\fR \(em move remote NIS map to local host"
.LP
.B ypxfr
moves a
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
map in the default domain for the local host
to the local host by making use of normal
.SM NIS
services.
It creates a temporary map in the directory
.BI /var/yp/ domain
(this directory must already exist;
.I domain
is the default domain for the local host),
fills it by enumerating the map's entries,
fetches the map parameters (master and order number),
and loads them.
It then deletes any old versions of the map and moves the
temporary map to the real
.IR mapname .
.LP
If run interactively,
.B ypxfr
writes its output to the terminal.
However, if it is invoked without a controlling terminal,
and if the log file
.B /var/yp/ypxfr.log
exists, it will append all its output to that file.  Since
.B ypxfr
is most often run from the super-user's
.B crontab
file, or by
.BR ypserv ,
you can use the log file to retain a record of what was attempted,
and what the results were.
.LP
If
.BR issecure (3)
is
.SM TRUE\s0,
.B ypxfr
requires that
.B ypserv
on the
.I host
be running as root.
If the map being transferred is a secure map,
.B ypxfr
sets the permissions on the map to 0600.
.LP
For consistency between servers,
.B ypxfr
should be run periodically for every map in the
.SM NIS
data base.  Different maps change
at different rates: the
.IB services . byname
map may not change for months at a time, for instance, and may
therefore be checked only once a day (in the wee hours).
You may know that
.IB mail . aliases
or
.IB hosts . byname
changes several times per day.
In such a case, you may want to check hourly for updates.
A
.BR crontab (5)
entry can be used to perform periodic updates automatically.
Rather than having a separate
.B crontab
entry for each map,
you can group commands to update several maps in a shell script.
Examples (mnemonically named) are in
.BR /usr/etc/yp :
.BR ypxfr_1perday ,
.BR ypxfr_2perday ,
and
.BR ypxfr_1perhour .
They can serve as reasonable first cuts.
.LP
Refer to
.BR ypfiles (5)
and
.BR ypserv (8)
for an overview of the 
.SM NIS
service.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Preserve the resolver flag in the map during the transfer.
.TP
.B \-c
Do not send a \*(lqClear current map\*(rq request to the local
.B ypserv
process.  Use this flag if
.B ypserv
is not running locally at the time you are running
.BR ypxfr .
Otherwise,
.B ypxfr
will complain that it cannot talk to the local
.BR ypserv ,
and the transfer will fail.
.TP
.B \-f
Force the transfer to occur even if the version at the master is not
more recent than the local version.
.TP
.BI \-d " domain"
Specify a domain other than the default domain.
.TP
.BI \-h " host"
Get the map from
.IR host ,
regardless of what the map says the master is.  If
.I host
is not specified,
.B ypxfr
asks the
.SM NIS
service for the name of the master, and tries to get the
map from there.
.I host
may be a name or an internet address in the form
.IR "a.b.c.d" .
.TP
.BI \-s " domain"
Specify a source domain from which to
transfer a map that should be the same
across domains (such as the
.IB  services . byname
map).
.TP
.BI \-C  "tid prog ipadd port"
This option is
.B only
for use by
.BR ypserv .
When
.B ypserv
invokes
.BR ypxfr ,
it specifies that
.B ypxfr
should call back a
.B yppush
process at the host with
.SM IP
address
.IR ipaddr ,
registered as program number
.IR prog ,
listening on port
.IR port ,
and waiting for a response to transaction
.IR tid .
.br
.ne 21
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/yp/ypxfr.log
log file
.TP
.B /usr/etc/yp/ypxfr_1perday
script to run one transfer per day, for use with
.BR cron (8)
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B /usr/etc/yp/ypxfr_2perday
script to run two transfers per day
.TP
.B /usr/etc/yp/ypxfr_1perhour
script for hourly transfers of volatile maps
.TP
.BI /var/yp/ domain
.SM NIS
domain
.TP
.B /var/spool/cron/crontabs/root
Super-user's 
.B crontab
file
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR issecure (3),
.BR crontab (5),
.BR ypfiles (5),
.BR cron (8),
.BR ypserv (8),
.BR yppush (8),
.LP
.IR "\s-1YP\s0 Protocol Specification" ,
in
.TX NETP
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
The name Yellow Pages is a registered trademark in the United Kingdom
of British Telecommunications plc,
and may not be used without permission.
