.\" @(#)filesystem.7 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH FILESYSTEM 7 "10 January 1988"
.SH NAME
filesystem \- file system organization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
/
/usr
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "filesystem" "" "file system organization"
.IX "filesystem" "" "file system layout"
.LP
The Sun\s-1OS\s0 file system tree is organized for easy administration.
Distinct areas within the file system tree are provided for files that
are private to one machine, files that can be shared by multiple
machines of a common architecture, files that can be shared
by all machines, and home directories.
This organization allows the sharable files to be stored
on one machine, while being accessed by many machines using a
remote file access mechanism such as Sun's Network File System
(\s-1NFS\s0).
Grouping together similar files makes the
file system tree easier to upgrade and manage.
.LP
The file system tree consists of a root file system and a collection
of mountable file systems.
The
.BR mount (8)
program attaches mountable file systems to the
file system tree at mount points (directory entries)
in the root file system, or other previously mounted file systems.
Two file systems,
.B /
(the root) and
.BR /usr ,
must be mounted in order to have a fully functional system.
The root file system is mounted automatically by the kernel at boot time; the
.B /usr
file system is mounted by the
.B /etc/rc.boot
script, which is run as part of the booting process.
.LP
The root file system contains files that are unique
to each machine;
it can not be shared among machines.
The root file system contains the following directories:
.TP 10
.B /dev
Character and block special files.  Device files provide hooks into
hardware devices or operating system facilities.  The
.BR \s-1MAKEDEV\s0
command
(see
.BR makedev (8))
builds device files in the
.B /dev
directory.
Typically, device files are built to match the kernel and hardware
configuration of the machine.
.TP
.B /etc
Various configuration files and system administration databases
that are machine specific.
You can think of
.B /etc
as the \*(lqhome directory\*(rq of a machine, defining its \*(lqidentity.\*(rq
Executable programs are no longer kept in
.BR /etc .
.TP
.B /home
Mount points for home directories.
This directory may be arranged so that shared user files are placed under
the directory
.BI /home/ machine-name
on machines serving as file servers.
Machines may then be locally configured with mount points under
.B /home
for all of the file servers of interest,
with the name of the mount point being the name of the file server.
.TP
.B /mnt
A generic mount point.
This is an empty directory available for temporarily mounting
file systems on.
.TP
.B /sbin
Executable programs that are needed in the
boot process before
.B /usr
is mounted.
.B /sbin
contains
.I only
those programs that are needed in order to
mount the
.B /usr
file system:
.BR hostname (1),
.BR ifconfig (8C),
.BR init (8),
.BR mount (8),
and
.BR sh (1).
After
.B /usr
is mounted, the full complement of utilities are available.
.TP
.B /tmp
Temporary files that are deleted at reboot time.
.TP
.B /var
Files, such as log files, that are unique to a machine but that can grow to
an arbitrary (\*(lqvariable\*(rq) size.
.TP
.B /var/adm
System logging and accounting files.
.TP
.B /var/preserve
Backup files for
.BR vi (1)
and
.BR ex (1).
.TP
.B /var/spool
Subdirectories for files used in printer spooling, mail delivery,
.BR cron (8),
.BR at (1),
etc.
.TP
.B /var/tmp
Transitory files that are not deleted at reboot time.
.LP
Because it is desirable to keep the root file system small,
larger file systems are often mounted on
.BR /var
and
.BR /tmp .
.LP
The file system mounted on
.B /usr
contains architecture-dependent and architecture-independent shareable files.
The subtree rooted at
.B /usr/share
contains architecture-independent shareable files;
the rest of the
.B /usr
tree contains architecture-dependent files.
By mounting a common remote file system,
a group of machines with a common architecture
may share a single
.B /usr
file system.
A single
.B /usr/share
file system can be shared by machines of any architecture.
A machine acting as a file server may export many different
.B /usr
file systems to support several different architectures
and operating system releases.
Clients usually mount
.B /usr
read-only to prevent their accidentally modifying any shared files.
The
.B /usr
file system contains the following subdirectories:
.TP 25
.B /usr/5bin
System V executables.
.TP
.B /usr/5include
System V include files.
.TP
.B /usr/5lib
System V library files.
.TP
.B /usr/bin
Executable programs.  The bulk of the system utilities are located here.
.TP
.B /usr/dict
Dictionary databases.
.TP
.B /usr/etc
Executable system administration programs.
.TP
.B /usr/games
Executable game programs and data.
.TP
.B /usr/include
Include files.
.TP
.B /usr/lib
Program libraries and various architecture-dependent databases.
.TP
.B /usr/pub
Various data files.
.TP
.B /usr/ucb
Executable programs descended from the Berkeley Software Distribution.
.TP
.B /usr/share
Subtree for architecture-independent shareable files.
.TP
.B /usr/share/man
Subdirectories for the on-line reference manual pages.
.TP
.B /usr/share/lib
Architecture-independent databases.
.LP
A machine with disks may export root file systems, swap files
and 
.B /usr
file systems to diskless or partially-disked machines,
which mount these into the standard file system hierarchy.
The standard directory tree for exporting these
file systems is:
.TP 25
.B /export
The root of the exported file system tree.
.TP
.BI /export/exec/ architecture-name
The exported 
.B /usr
file system supporting
.I architecture-name
for the current release.
.TP
.BI /export/exec/ architecture-name . release-name
The exported
.B /usr
file system supporting 
.I architecture-name
for Sun\s-1OS\s0
.IR release-name .
.TP
.B /export/share
The exported common
.B /usr/share
directory tree.
.TP
.BI /export/root/ hostname
The exported root file system for
.IR hostname .
.TP
.BI /export/swap/ hostname
The exported swap file for
.IR hostname .
.TP
.BI /export/var/ hostname
The exported
.B /var
directory tree for
.IR hostname .
.TP
.BI /export/dump/ hostname
The exported dump file for
.IR hostname .
.TP
.BI /export/crash/ hostname
The exported crash dump directory for
.IR hostname .
.br
.ne 5
.SS "Changes from Previous Releases"
.LP
The file system layout described here is quite a bit different
from the layout employed previous to release 4.0 of Sun\s-1OS\s0.
For compatibility with earlier releases of Sun\s-1OS\s0,
and other versions of the
.SM UNIX
system, symbolic links are provided for various files and directories
linking their previous names to their current locations.
The symbolic links provided include:
.TP 25
.BR /bin " \(em> " /usr/bin
All programs previously located in
.B /bin
are now in
.BR /usr/bin .
.TP
.BR /lib " \(em> " /usr/lib
All files previously located in
.B /lib
are now in
.BR /usr/lib .
.TP
.BR /usr/adm " \(em> " /var/adm
The entire
.B /usr/adm
directory has been moved to
.BR /var/adm .
.TP
.BR /usr/spool " \(em> " /var/spool
The entire
.B /usr/spool
directory has been moved to
.BR /var/spool .
.TP
.BR /usr/tmp " \(em> " /var/tmp
The
.B /usr/tmp
directory has been moved to
.BR /var/tmp .
.LP
.BR /etc/termcap " \(em> " /usr/share/lib/termcap
.LP
.BR /usr/5lib/terminfo " \(em> " /usr/share/lib/terminfo
.LP
.BR /usr/lib/me " \(em> " /usr/share/lib/me
.LP
.BR /usr/lib/ms " \(em> " /usr/share/lib/ms
.LP
.BR /usr/lib/tmac " \(em> " /usr/share/lib/tmac
.LP
.BR /usr/man " \(em> " /usr/share/man
.LP
The following program binaries have been moved from
.B /etc
to
.B /usr/etc
with symbolic links to them left in
.BR /etc :
.BR arp ,
.BR clri ,
.BR cron ,
.BR chown ,
.BR chroot ,
.BR config ,
.BR dkinfo ,
.BR dmesg ,
.BR dump ,
.BR fastboot ,
.BR fasthalt ,
.BR fsck ,
.BR halt ,
.BR ifconfig ,
.BR link ,
.BR mkfs ,
.BR mknod ,
.BR mount ,
.BR ncheck ,
.BR newfs ,
.BR pstat ,
.BR rdump ,
.BR reboot ,
.BR renice ,
.BR restore ,
.BR rmt ,
.BR rrestore ,
.BR shutdown ,
.BR umount ,
.BR update ,
.BR unlink ,
and
.BR vipw .
.LP
In addition, some files and directories
have been moved with no symbolic link left
behind in the old location:
.LP
.RS
.TP 20
.I Old Name
.I New Name
.TP
.B /etc/biod
.B /usr/etc/biod
.TP 
.B /etc/fsirand
.B /usr/etc/fsirand
.TP 
.B /etc/getty
.B /usr/etc/getty
.TP 
.B /etc/in.rlogind
.B /usr/etc/in.rlogind
.TP
.B /etc/in.routed
.B /usr/etc/in.routed
.TP
.B /etc/in.rshd
.B /usr/etc/in.rshd
.TP
.B /etc/inetd
.B /usr/etc/inetd
.TP
.B /etc/init
.B /usr/etc/init
.TP
.B /etc/nfsd
.B /usr/etc/nfsd
.TP
.B /etc/portmap
.B /usr/etc/portmap
.TP
.B /etc/rpc.lockd
.B /usr/etc/rpc.lockd
.TP
.B /etc/rpc.statd
.B /usr/etc/rpc.statd
.TP
.B /etc/ypbind
.B /usr/etc/ypbind
.TP
.B /usr/lib/sendmail.cf
.B /etc/sendmail.cf
.TP
.B /usr/preserve
.B /var/preserve
.TP
.B /usr/lib/aliases
.B /etc/aliases
.TP
.B /stand
.B /usr/stand
.TP
.B /etc/yp
.B /var/yp
.RE
.LP
Note: with this new file system organization, the approach to
repairing a broken file system changes.
One must mount
.B /usr
before doing an
.BR fsck (8),
for example.
If the mount point for
.B /usr
has been destroyed,
.B /usr
can be mounted temporarily on
.B /mnt
or
.BR /tmp .
If the root file system on a standalone system
is so badly damaged that none of these
mount points exist,
or if
.B /sbin/mount
has been corrupted, the only way to repair it may be
to re-install the root file system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR at (1),
.BR ex (1),
.BR hostname (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR intro (4),
.BR nfs (4P),
.BR hier (7),
.BR fsck (8),
.BR ifconfig (8C),
.BR init (8),
.BR makedev (8),
.BR mount (8),
.BR rc (8)
