.\" @(#)ar.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH AR 4S "18 February 1988"
.SH NAME
ar \- Archive 1/4 inch Streaming Tape Drive
.SH AVAILABILITY
Sun-3 and Sun-4 systems only.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ar device"  ""  "\fLar\fP \(em Archive 1/4-inch Streaming Tape Drive"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "1/4-inch tape drive"  ar  ""  "\fLar\fP \(em Archive 1/4-inch Streaming Tape Drive"  PAGE START
.IX  "streaming 1/4-inch tape drive"  ""  "streaming 1/4-inch tape drive \(em \fLar\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "tape drive, 1/4-inch"  "ar"  ""  "\fLar\fP \(em Archive 1/4-inch Streaming Tape Drive"  PAGE START
.LP
The Archive tape controller is a Sun `\s-1QIC\s0-II'
interface to an Archive streaming tape drive.
It provides a standard tape interface to the device, see
.BR mtio (4),
with some deficiencies listed under
.SM BUGS
below.
.LP
The maximum blocksize for the raw device is limited only by
available memory.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/rar*
.TP
.B /dev/nrar*
non-rewinding
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO
.BR mtio (4)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B ar*: would not initialize
.TP
.B ar*: already open
The tape can be opened by only one process at a time
.LP
.B ar*: no such drive
.LP
.B ar*: no cartridge in drive
.LP
.B ar*: cartridge is write protected
.LP
.B ar: interrupt from unitialized controller %x
.LP
.B ar*: many retries, consider retiring this tape
.LP
.B ar*: %b error at block # %d punted
.LP
.B ar*: %b error at block # %d
.LP
.B ar: giving up on Rdy, try again
.SH BUGS
The tape cannot reverse direction so the
.SB BSF
and
.SB BSR
ioctls are not supported.
.LP
The
.SB FSR
ioctl is not supported.
.LP
The system will hang if the tape is removed while running.
.LP
When using the raw device, the number of bytes in any given transfer must be
a multiple of 512 bytes.  If it is not, the device driver returns an error.
.LP
The driver will only write an
.SM EOF
mark on close if the last
operation was a write, without regard for the mode used when opening the
file.  This delete empty files on a raw tape copy
operation.
.IX  "ar device"  ""  "\fLar\fP \(em Archive 1/4-inch Streaming Tape Drive"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "1/4-inch tape drive"  ar  ""  "\fLar\fP \(em Archive 1/4-inch Streaming Tape Drive"  PAGE END
.IX  "streaming 1/4-inch tape drive"  ""  "streaming 1/4-inch tape drive \(em \fLar\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "tape drive, 1/4-inch"  "ar"  ""  "\fLar\fP \(em Archive 1/4-inch Streaming Tape Drive"  PAGE END
