.\" @(#) audioamd.4 1.1@(#) SMI
.TH AUDIOAMD 4  "2 June 1992"
.SH NAME
audioamd \- telephone quality audio device
.SH CONFIG 
.B device-driver audioamd
.IX "audioamd" "" "\fLaudioamd\fP \(em telephone quality audio device"
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
.SM SPARC\s0station
1 and 2,
.SM IPC\s0,
.SM IPX\s0,
.SM SLC\s0,
.SM SLX\s0,
and
.SM SPARC\s0server
6xx systems.
.LP
Desktop
.SM SPARC\s0systems
include a built-in speaker for audio output.
The audio cable
.\" (Sun part number #530-1702)
provides connectors for a microphone
and external headset.
The headset output level is adequate to power most headphones,
but may be too low for some external speakers. Powered
speakers or an external amplifier may be used.
.SM SPARC\s0server
6xx systems do not have an internal speaker, but support an
external microphone and speaker connected through the audio cable.
.LP
The Sun Microphone
.\" (Sun part number #370-1414)
is recommended
for normal desktop audio recording. It contains a battery
that must be replaced after 210 hours of use. Other microphones
may be used, but a pre-amplifier circuit may be required to
achieve a sufficient input signal. Other audio sources
may be recorded by connecting one channel of the line output
to the audio cable microphone input. If the input signal
is distorted, external attenuation may be required
(audio sources may also be connected from their headphone
output with the volume turned down).
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B audioamd
device uses the
.SM AM79C30A
Digital Subscriber Controller chip to implement the audio device interface.
This interface is described fully in the
.BR audio (4)
manual page.
.LP
The
.SB AUDIO_GETDEV
.BR ioctl (2V)
returns
.SB AUDIO_DEV_AMD
to identify
the
.B audioamd
device type. The
.SB AUDIO_SETINFO
.B ioctl
controls device configuration parameters.
.SS Audio Data Formats
The
.B audioamd
device supports the audio formats listed in the following table.
When the device is open for simultaneous play and record,
the input and output data formats must match.
.sp
.\" === troff version of table ============
.if n .ig IG
.ps -1
.vs -1
.TS
center allbox;
c s s s
c c c c
c c c c.
Supported Audio Data Formats
Sample Rate	Encoding	Precision	Channels
8000 Hz	\(*m-law	8	1
8000 Hz	A-law	8	1
.TE
.br
.ps +1
.vs +1
.DT
.IG
.\" === end troff version ======
.\" ====nroff version ==========
.if t .ig IG
.cs R 20
.nf
.ta 13n +13n +10n +10n
.RS
	Supported Audio Data Formats
.sp
.RS
Sample Rate	Encoding	Precision	Channels
.sp
8000 Hz	u-law	8	1
8000 Hz	A-law	8	1
.cs R
.RE
.RE
.fi
.DT
.IG
.\" === end nroff version ======
.LP
Since
.B audioamd
supports only single-channel (monaural) audio,
the
.I play.balance
and
.I record.balance
fields of the
.B audio_info
structure are ignored.
.SS Audio Ports
The
.I record.avail_ports
and
.I play.avail_ports
fields of the
.B audio_info
structure report the available input and output ports. The
.B audioamd
device supports one input port, selected by setting the
.I record.port
field to
\s-1\fBAUDIO_MICROPHONE\fP\s0.
The
.I play.port
field may be set to either
.SB AUDIO_SPEAKER
or
\s-1\fBAUDIO_HEADPHONE\fP\s0,
to direct audio output to the built-in speaker or headphone jack,
respectively. Note that
.SB AUDIO_SPEAKER
cannot be enabled for systems that do not include a built-in speaker.
.SS Sample Granularity
Since the
.B audioamd
device manipulates single samples of audio data, the reported
input and output sample counts will be very close to the actual
sample count.  However, some other audio devices report sample
counts that are approximate, due to buffering constraints.
Programs should, in general, not rely on absolute accuracy
of the sample count fields.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.B /dev/audio
.TP
.B /dev/audioctl
.TP
.B /usr/demo/SOUND
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ioctl (2V),
.BR audio (4),
.BR streamio (4)
.LP
.SM AMD
data sheet for the
.SM AM79C30A
Digital Subscriber Controller,
Publication number 09893.
.SH BUGS
The
.B audioamd
device driver does not currently support the
.I output_muted
field of the
.B audio_info
structure.
