.\" @(#)bwtwo.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH BWTWO 4S "19 March 1991"
.SH NAME
bwtwo \- black and white memory frame buffer
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-3, SUN-3x SYSTEMS"
.ft B
.nf
device bwtwo0 at obmem 1 csr 0xff000000 priority 4
device bwtwo0 at obmem 2 csr 0x100000 priority 4
device bwtwo0 at obmem 3 csr 0xff000000 priority 4
device bwtwo0 at obmem 4 csr 0xff000000
device bwtwo0 at obmem 7 csr 0xff000000 priority 4
device bwtwo0 at obmem ? csr 0x50300000 priority 4
.ft R
.fi
.LP
The first synopsis line given above is
used to generate a kernel for Sun-3/75,
Sun-3/140 or Sun-3/160 systems; the second, for a
Sun-3/50 system; the third, for a Sun-3/260
system; the fourth,
for a Sun-3/110 system; the fifth, for a Sun-3/60
system; and the sixth for Sun-3/80 and Sun-3/470 systems.
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-4 SYSTEMS"
.ft B
.nf
device bwtwo0 at obio 1 csr 0xfd000000 priority 4
device bwtwo0 at obio 2 csr 0xfb300000 priority 4
device bwtwo0 at obio 3 csr 0xfb300000 priority 4
device bwtwo0 at obio 4 csr 0xfb300000 priority 4
.ft R
.fi
.LP
The first synopsis line given above should be used to generate a kernel
for a Sun-4/260 or Sun-4/280 system; the second, for a Sun-4/110 system;
the third for a Sun-4/330 system; and the fourth for a Sun-4/460
system.
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-4c, SUN-4m SYSTEMS"
.ft B
.nf
device-driver bwtwo
.ft R
.fi
.\" Sun386i
.SH "CONFIG \(em Sun386i SYSTEM"
.ft B
.nf
device bwtwo0 at obmem ? csr 0xA0200000
.ft R
.fi
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "bwtwo device"  ""  "\fLbwtwo\fP \(em black and white frame buffer"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "frame buffer"  "bwtwo"  ""  "\fLbwtwo\fP \(em black and white frame buffer"  PAGE START
.IX  "monochrome frame buffer bwtwo"  ""  "monochrome frame buffer \(em \fLbwtwo\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.LP
The
.B bwtwo
interface provides access to Sun monochrome memory frame buffers.
It supports the ioctls described in
.BR fbio (4S).
.LP
If
.B "flags 0x1"
is specified, frame buffer write operations
are buffered through regular high-speed
.SM RAM\s0.
This \*(lqcopy memory\*(rq mode of operation speeds frame
buffer accesses, but consumes an extra 128K bytes
of memory.  Only Sun-3/75, Sun-3/140, and Sun-3/160
systems support copy memory; on other systems a
warning message is printed and the flag is ignored.
.LP
Reading or writing to the frame buffer is not
allowed \(em you must use the
.BR mmap (2)
system call to map the board into your address space.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/bwtwo[0-9]
device files
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO
.BR mmap (2),
.BR cgfour (4S),
.BR fb (4S),
.BR fbio (4S)
.SH BUGS
Use of vertical-retrace interrupts is not supported.
.IX  "bwtwo device"  ""  "\fLbwtwo\fP \(em black and white frame buffer"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "frame buffer"  "bwtwo"  ""  "\fLbwtwo\fP \(em black and white frame buffer"  PAGE END
.IX  "monochrome frame buffer bwtwo"  ""  "monochrome frame buffer \(em \fLbwtwo\fP"  ""  PAGE END
