.\" @(#)cgnine.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new for 4.1
.TH CGNINE 4S "21 May 1989"
.SH NAME
cgnine \- 24-bit VME color memory frame buffer
.SH CONFIGURATION
.ft B
.nf
device cgnine0 at vme32d32 ? csr 0x08000000 priority 4 vector cgnineintr 0xaa
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "cgnine device"  ""  "\fLcgnine\fP \(em low-end graphics accelerator with color memory frame buffer"  ""
.IX  "color graphics interface"  "cgnine"  ""  "\fLcgnine\fP \(em color memory frame buffer"
.LP  
.B cgnine
is a 24-bit double-buffered
.SM VME\s0-based
color frame buffer.
It provides the standard frame buffer interface defined in 
.BR fbio (4S),
and and can be paired with the 
.SB GP2
graphics accelerator board using 
.BR gpconfig (8).
.LP
.B cgnine
has two bits of overlay planes, each of which is a 1-bit
deep frame buffer that overlays the 24-bit plane group.
When either bit of the two overlay planes is non-zero,
the pixel shows the color of the overlay plane.
If both bits are zero,
the color frame buffer underneath is visible.
.LP
The 24-bit frame buffer pixel is organized as one
longword (32 bits) per pixel. 
The pixel format is defined in 
.B <pixrect/pixrect.h>
as follows:
.RS
.nf
.ft B
	union fbunit {
	unsigned int	packed;	/* whole-sale deal */
	struct {
		unsigned int	A:8;	/* unused, for now */
		unsigned int	B:8;	/* blue channel */
		unsigned int	G:8;	/* green channel */
		unsigned int	R:8;	/* red channel */
		}
			channel;	/* access per channel */
	};  
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
When the board is in double-buffer mode,
the low 4 bits of each channel are ignored when written to, which
yields 12-bit double-buffering.
.LP
The higher bit of the overlay planes ranges
from offset 0 to 128K (0x20000) bytes.
The lower bit ranges from 128K to 256K bytes.
The 4MB (0x400000) of the 24-bit deep pixels begins at 256K.
The addresses of the control registers start at
the next page after the 24-bit deep pixels.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/cgnine0
device special file
.TP
.B /dev/gpone0a
.B cgnine
bound with
.SB GP2
.TP
.B /dev/fb
default frame buffer
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO
.BR mmap (2),
.BR fbio (4S),
.BR gpone (4S)
.BR gpconfig (8)
