.\" @(#)cgtwelve.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH CGTWELVE 4S "3 July 1990"
.SH NAME
cgtwelve \- 24-bit SBus color memory frame buffer and graphics accelerator
.SH CONFIGURATION
.ft B
.nf
device-driver cgtwelve
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "cgtwelve device"  ""  "\fLcgtwelve\fP \(em Sun-4c mid-range graphics accelerator with color memory frame buffer"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "color graphics interface"  "cgtwelve"  ""  "\fLcgtwelve\fP \(em Sun-4c color memory frame buffer"
.LP  
.B cgtwelve
is a 24-bit SBus-based color frame buffer and graphics accelerator,
with 12-bit double buffering, 8-bit colormap, and overlay/enable planes.
It provides the standard frame buffer interface defined in 
.BR fbio (4S),
paired with microcode which can be downloaded using
.BR gpconfig (8).
Application acceleration is achieved using the Pixwin and SunPHIGS
Application Programmer Interfaces (\s-1API\s0s).
.\" ***  need to modify the below text before Beta to include ovlay and WIDs.
.\" .LP
.\" .B cgtwelve
.\" has two bits of overlay planes, each of which is a 1-bit
.\" deep frame buffer that overlays the 24-bit plane group.
.\" When either bit of the two overlay planes is non-zero,
.\" the pixel shows the color of the overlay plane.
.\" If both bits are zero,
.\" the color frame buffer underneath is visible.
.LP
The cgtwelve has registers and memory that may be mapped with
.BR mmap (2), 
using the offsets defined in
.BR <sbusdev/cg12reg.h> .
.\" .LP
.\" The 24-bit frame buffer pixel is organized as one
.\" longword (32 bits) per pixel. 
.\" The pixel format is defined in 
.\" .B /usr/include/pixrect/pixrect.h
.\" as follows:
.\" .RS
.\" .nf
.\" .ft B
.\"	union fbunit {
.\"	unsigned int	packed;	/* whole-sale deal */
.\"	struct {
.\"		unsigned int	A:8;	/* unused, for now */
.\"		unsigned int	B:8;	/* blue channel */
.\"		unsigned int	G:8;	/* green channel */
.\"		unsigned int	R:8;	/* red channel */
.\"		}
.\"			channel;	/* access per channel */
.\"	};  
.\" .fi
.\" .ft R
.\" .RE
.LP
When in double-buffer mode,
each channel is dithered to 4 bits,
yielding 12-bit double-buffering.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
.B /dev/cgtwelve0
device special file
.TP
.B /dev/fb
default frame buffer
.TP
.B /usr/include/sbusdev/cg12reg.h
device-specific definitions
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO
.BR mmap (2),
.BR fbio (4S),
.BR gpconfig (8)
.IX "cgtwelve device"  ""  "\fLcgtwelve\fP \(em Sun-4c color memory frame buffer"  ""  PAGE END
.IX "color graphics interface"  "cgtwelve"  ""  "\fLcgtwelve\fP \(em Sun-4c mid-range graphics accelerator with color memory frame buffer"  PAGE END
