.\" @(#) dbri.4 1.1@(#) Copyright 1991 Sun Microsystems Computer Company, Inc.
.TH DBRI 4  "29 May 1992"
.SH NAME
.LP
dbri - Dual Basic Rate ISDN Interface and audio interface
.SH CONFIG
.B device-driver dbri
.IX "dbri" "" "\fLdbri\fP \(em ISDN and audio interface"
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
.SM SPARC\s0station
10 systems only.
.LP
The SpeakerBox audio peripheral
.\" (Sun part number #X491A)
is available for most
.B dbri
equipped systems and provides an integral monaural speaker as well as
stereo line out, stereo line in, stereo headphone, and monaural
microphone connections.
The headset output level is adequate to power most headphones,
but may be too low for some external speakers.  Powered
speakers or an external amplifier may be used with both the
headphone and line out ports.
.LP
The Sun Microphone
.\" (Sun part number #370-1414)
is recommended
for normal desktop audio recording.
When the Sun Microphone is used in conjunction with the
SpeakerBox, the microphone battery is bypassed.
Other audio sources may be recorded by
connecting their line output to the SpeakerBox line input
(audio sources may also be connected from their headphone
output if the volume is adjusted properly).
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B dbri
device uses the Dual Basic Rate
.SM ISDN
Interface
(\s-1DBRI\s0)
and Multimedia Codec chips to implement the
audio device interface.
This interface is described fully in the
.BR audio (4)
manual page.
.LP
The
.SB AUDIO_GETDEV
.BR ioctl (2V)
returns
.SB AUDIO_DEV_SPEAKERBOX
to identify
the
.B dbri
device type. The
.SB AUDIO_SETINFO
.B ioctl
controls device configuration parameters.
.SS Audio Data Formats
The
.B dbri
device supports the audio formats listed in the following table.
When the device is open for simultaneous play and record,
the input and output data formats must match.
.sp
.\" === troff version of table ============
.if n .ig IG
.ps -1
.vs -1
.TS
center allbox;
c s s s
c c c c
c c c c.
Supported Audio Data Formats
Sample Rate	Encoding	Precision	Channels
8000 Hz	\(*m-law	8	1
8000 Hz	A-law	8	1
8000 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
9600 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
11025 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
16000 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
18900 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
22050 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
32000 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
37800 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
44100 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
48000 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
.TE
.br
.ps +1
.vs +1
.DT
.IG
.\" === end troff version ======
.\" ====nroff version ==========
.if t .ig IG
.cs R 20
.nf
.ta 13n +13n +10n +10n
.RS
	Supported Audio Data Formats
.sp
.RS
Sample Rate	Encoding	Precision	Channels
.sp
8000 Hz	u-law	8	1
8000 Hz	A-law	8	1
8000 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
9600 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
11025 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
16000 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
18900 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
22050 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
32000 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
37800 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
44100 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
48000 Hz	linear	16	1 or 2
.cs R
.RE
.RE
.fi
.DT
.IG
.\" === end nroff version ======
.SS Audio Ports
The
.I record.avail_ports
and
.I play.avail_ports
fields of the
.B audio_info
structure report the available input and output ports.  The
.B dbri
device supports two input ports, selected by setting the
.I record.port
field to either
.SB AUDIO_MICROPHONE
or
\s-1\fBAUDIO_LINE_IN\fP\s0.
The
.I play.port
field may be set to any combination of
\s-1\fBAUDIO_SPEAKER\fP\s0,
\s-1\fBAUDIO_HEADPHONE\fP\s0,
and
.SB AUDIO_LINE_OUT
by
.SM OR\s0'ing
the desired port names together.  Note that some ports
may be unavailable for particular
.SM SPARC\s0systems.
.SS Sample Granularity
Since the
.B dbri
device manipulates buffers of audio data, at any given time
the reported input and output
sample counts will vary from the actual sample count by no more than
the size of the buffers it is transferring.
Programs should, in general, not rely on absolute accuracy
of the
.I play.samples
and
.I record.samples
fields of the
.B audio_info
structure.
.SH ERRORS
In addition to the errors described in
.BR audio (4),
an
.B open(\|)
will fail if:
.TP 15
.SM ENODEV
The driver is unable to communicate with the SpeakerBox, possibly because it
is currently not plugged in.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/audio
.TP
.B /dev/audioctl
.TP
.B /usr/demo/SOUND
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ioctl (2V),
.BR audio (4),
.BR streamio (4)
