.\" @(#)fbio.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH FBIO 4S "7 October 1990"
.SH NAME
fbio \- frame buffer control operations
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "fbio device"  ""  "\fLfbio\fP \(em frame buffer control operations"  ""  PAGE START
.LP
All Sun frame buffers support the same general interface that is defined
by 
.BR <sun/fbio.h> .
Each responds to an
.SB FBIOGTYPE
.BR ioctl(2)
request which returns information in a
.B fbtype
structure.
.LP
Each device has an
.SB FBTYPE
which is used by higher-level software
to determine how to perform graphics functions.
Each device is used by opening it, doing an
.SB FBIOGTYPE
.B ioctl(\|)
to see which frame buffer type is present, and thereby selecting the
appropriate device-management routines.
.LP
Full-fledged frame buffers (that is,
those that run SunView1) implement an
.SB FBIOGPIXRECT
.B ioctl(\|)
request, which returns a pixrect.
This call is made only from inside the kernel.
The returned pixrect is used by
.BR win (4S)
for cursor tracking and colormap loading.
.LP
.SB FBIOSVIDEO
and
.SB FBIOGVIDEO
are general-purpose
.B ioctl(\|)
reuqests for controlling
possible video features of frame buffers.
These
.B ioctl(\|)
requests either set or return the value
of a flags integer.
At this point, only the
.SB FBVIDEO_ON
option is available, controlled by
.BR \s-1FBIOSVIDEO\s0 .
.SB FBIOGVIDEO
returns the current video state.
.LP
The
.SB FBIOSATTR
and
.SB FBIOGATTR
.B ioctl(\|)
requests allow access to special features of
newer frame buffers.
They use the 
.B fbsattr
and
.B fbgattr
structures.
.LP
Some color frame buffers support the
.SB FBIOPUTCMAP
and
.SB FBIOGETCMAP
.B ioctl(\|)
reuqests, which provide access to the colormap.
They use the
.B fbcmap
structure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR bw* (4S),
.BR cg* (4S),
.BR gp* (4S),
.BR fb (4S),
.BR win (4S)
.SH BUGS
.LP
The
.SB FBIOSATTR
and
.SB FBIOGATTR
.B ioctl(\|)
requests are only supported by frame buffers which emulate older
frame buffer types.
For example,
.BR cgfour (4S)
frame buffers emulate
.BR bwtwo (4S)
frame buffers.
If a frame buffer is emulating another frame buffer,
.SB FBIOGTYPE
returns the emulated type.
To get the real type, use
\fB\s-1FBIOGATTR\s0\fP.
.\".LP
.\"The
.\".SB FBVIDEO_ON
.\"flag may be incorrect for Sun-1 black and white frame buffers; see
.\".BR bwone (4S).
.IX  "fbio device"  ""  "\fLfbio\fP \(em frame buffer control operations"  ""  PAGE END
