.\" @(#)fd.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH FD 4S "7 October 1990"
.SH NAME
fd \- disk driver for Floppy Disk Controllers
.SH "CONFIG \(em Sun386i SYSTEMS"
.nf
.ft B
controller fdc0 at atmem ? csr 0x1000 dmachan 2 irq 6 priority 2
disk fd0 at fdc0 drive 0 flags 0
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-3/80 SYSTEMS"
.nf
.ft B
controller fdc0 at obio ? csr 0x6e000000 priority 6 vector fdintr 0x5c
disk fd0 at fdc0 drive 0 flags 0
.SH "CONFIG \(em Desktop SPARCsystems"
.nf
.ft B
device-driver fd
.ft R
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Sun386i, Sun-3/80, and Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems only.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "Sun floppy disk driver"  ""  "Sun floppy disk driver \(em \fLfd\fP"
.IX  "disk driver"  "Sun floppy"  ""  "\fLfd\fP \(em Sun floppy"
.LP
The
.B fd
driver provides an interface to floppy disks 
using the Intel 82072 disk
controller on Sun386i,
Sun-3/80 and Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems.
.LP
The minor device number in files that use the floppy interface encodes the
unit number as well as the partition.
The bits of the minor device
number are defined as
.B rrruuppp
where
.BR r =reserved, 
.BR u =unit,
and
.BR p =partition.
The unit number selects a particular floppy drive for the controller.
The partition number picks one of eight partitions
.RB [ a-h ].
.LP
When the floppy is
first opened the driver looks for a label in logical block 0 of the
diskette.
If
a label is found, the geometry and partition information from the label
will be used on each access thereafter.
The driver first assumes high
density characteristics when it tries to read the label.
If
the read fails it will try the read again using low density
characteristics.
If both attempts to read the label fail, the open will fail.
Use the
.SB FNDELAY
flag when opening an unformatted diskette as a signal to the
driver that it should not attempt to access the diskette.
If block 0 is read successfully, but a label is not found,
the open will fail for the block interface.
Using the raw interface, the open will succeed even if the diskette
is unlabeled.
Default geometry and partitioning
are assumed if the diskette is unlabeled.
.LP
The default partitions are:
.RS
.TP
.B a
\-> 0, N-1
.TP
.B b
\-> N-1, N
.TP
.B c
\-> 0, N
.RE
where N is the number of cylinders on the diskette.
.fi
.LP
The
.B fd
driver supports both block and raw interfaces.
The block files access the disk using the system's normal
buffering mechanism and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.
There is also a \(lqraw\(rq interface
that provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single
.BR read (2V)
or
.BR write (2V)
call usually results in one I/O operation;
therefore raw I/O is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.
The names of the raw files conventionally
begin with an extra
.RB ` r '.
.SH "FILES \(em Sun386i SYSTEMS"
.LP
1.44 MB Floppy Disk Drives:
.TP 20
.B /dev/fd0a
.PD 0
block file
.TP
.B /dev/fd0c
block file
.TP
.B /dev/rfd0a
raw file
.TP
.B /dev/rfd0c
raw file
.PD
.br
.ne 8
.LP
720 K Floppy Disk Drives:
.TP 20
.B /dev/fdl0a
block file
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/fdl0c
block file
.TP
.B /dev/rfdl0a
raw file
.TP
.B /dev/rfdl0c
raw file
.PD
.SH "FILES \(em SUN-3/80 and Desktop SPARCsystems"
.LP
Note: the
.B fd
driver on Sun-3/80 and Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems auto-senses the density of the floppy.
.TP 20
.B /dev/fd0[a-c]
.PD 0
block file
.TP
.B /dev/fd0
block file (same as
.BR /dev/fd0c )
.TP
.B /dev/rfd0[a-c]
raw file
.TP
.B /dev/rfd0
raw file (same as
.BR /dev/rfd0c )
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR read (2V),
.BR write (2V),
.BR dkio (4S)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS \(em Sun386i SYSTEMS"
.TP
.B "fd drv %d, trk %d: %s"
A command such as read or write encountered a format-related  error condition.
The value of
.I %s
is derived from the error number 
given by the controller, indicating the nature of the error. 
The track number is relative to the beginning of the partition involved.
.TP
.B "fd drv %d, blk %d: %s"
A command such as read or write encountered an error condition related to
I/O.
The value of
.I %s
is derived from the error number returned by the
controller and indicates the nature of the error. 
The block number is relative
to the start of the partition involved.
.TP
.B "fd controller: %s"
An error occurred in the controller.
The value of 
.I %s
is derived from the status returned by the controller
and specifies the error encountered.
.TP
.B "fd(%d):%s please insert"
I/O was attempted while the floppy drive door was not latched. 
The value of
.I %s
indicates which disk was expected to be in the drive.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS \(em SUN-3/80 and Desktop SPARCsystems"
.TP
.B "fd%d: %s failed (%x %x %x)"
The command, %s, failed after several retries on drive %d.
The three hex values in
parenthesis are the contents of status register 0, status register 1, and
status register 2 of the Intel 82072 Floppy Disk Controller on completion
of the command as documented in the data sheet for that part.
This error message is usually followed by one of the following, interpreting the
bits of the status register:
.TP
.PD 0
.B "fd%d: not writable"
.TP
.B "fd%d: crc error"
.TP
.B "fd%d: overrun/underrun"
.TP
.B "fd%d: bad format"
.TP
.B "fd%d: timeout"
.PD
.SH NOTES
.LP
Floppy diskettes have 18 sectors per track, and can cross a track
(though not a cylinder) boundary without lossing data, so when using
.BR dd (1)
to or from a diskette, you should specify
.B bs=18k
or multiples thereof.
