.\" @(#)icmp.4p 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1986 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH ICMP 4P "24 November 1987"
.SH NAME
icmp \- Internet Control Message Protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.B #include <netinet/in.h>
.B #include <netinet/ip_icmp.h>
.LP
.B s = socket(\s-1AF_INET\s0, \s-1SOCK_RAW\s0, proto);
.fi
.IX  "icmp protocol"  ""  "\fLicmp\fP \(em Internet Control Message Protocol"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  Internet  "control message protocol icmp"  ""  "control message protocol \(em \fLicmp\fP"  PAGE START
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SM ICMP
is the error and control message protocol used
by the Internet protocol family.
It is used by the kernel to handle and report errors
in protocol processing.
It may also be accessed
through a \*(lqraw socket\*(rq for network monitoring
and diagnostic functions.
The protocol number for
.SM ICMP\s0,
used in the
.I proto
parameter to the socket call,
can be obtained from
.B getprotobyname
(see
.BR getprotoent (3N)).
.SM ICMP
sockets are connectionless,
and are normally used with the
.I sendto
and
.I recvfrom
calls, though the
.BR connect (2)
call may also be used to fix the destination for future
packets (in which case the
.BR read (2V)
or
.BR recv (2)
and
.BR write (2V)
or
.BR send (2)
system calls may be used).
.LP
Outgoing packets automatically have an Internet Protocol (\s-1IP\s0)
header prepended to them.
Incoming packets are provided to the holder of a raw
socket with the
.SM IP
header and options intact.
.LP
.SM ICMP
is an unreliable datagram protocol layered above
.SM IP\s0.
It is used internally by the protcol code
for various purposes including routing,
fault isolation,
and congestion control.
Receipt of an
.SM ICMP
\*(lqredirect\*(rq message will add a new entry in
the routing table,
or modify an existing one.
.SM ICMP
messages are routinely sent by the protocol code.
Received
.SM ICMP
messages may be reflected back to users
of higher-level protocols such as
.SM TCP
or
.SM UDP
as error returns from system calls.
A copy of all
.SM ICMP
message received by the system
is provided using the
.SM ICMP
raw socket.
.SH ERRORS
A socket operation may fail with one of the following errors returned:
.TP 20
.SM EISCONN
when trying to establish a connection on a socket which
already has one, or when trying to send a datagram with the destination
address specified and the socket is already connected;
.TP
.SM ENOTCONN
when trying to send a datagram, but
no destination address is specified, and the socket hasn't been
connected;
.TP
.SM ENOBUFS
when the system runs out of memory for
an internal data structure;
.TP
.SM EADDRNOTAVAIL
when an attempt is made to create a
socket with a network address for which no network interface
exists.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR connect (2),
.BR read (2V),
.BR recv (2),
.BR send (2),
.BR write (2V),
.BR getprotoent (3N),
.BR inet (4F),
.BR ip (4P),
.BR routing (4N)
.LP
Postel, Jon,
.IR "Internet Control Message Protocol \(em \s-1DARPA\s0 Internet Program Protocol Specification" ,
.SM RFC
792, Network Information Center,
.SM SRI
International, Menlo Park, Calif.,
September 1981.  (Sun 800-1064-01)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Replies to
.SM ICMP
\*(lqecho\*(rq messages which are source routed
are not sent back using inverted source routes,
but rather go back through the normal routing mechanisms.
.IX  "icmp protocol"  ""  "\fLicmp\fP \(em Internet Control Message Protocol"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  Internet  "control message protocol icmp"  ""  "control message protocol \(em \fLicmp\fP"  PAGE END
