.\" @(#)id.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH ID 4S "17 April 1991"
.SH NAME
id \- disk driver for IPI disk controllers
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-4, SPARCsystem 600MP SERIES"
.ft B
.nf
controller	idc0	at ipi ? csr 0x0000ff priority 2   # channel 0 slave 0
disk		id 0x000 at idc0 drive 0 	# facility 0
disk		id 0x001 at idc0 drive 1
disk		id 0x002 at idc0 drive 2
disk		id 0x003 at idc0 drive 3
disk		id 0x004 at idc0 drive 4
disk		id 0x005 at idc0 drive 5
disk		id 0x006 at idc0 drive 6
disk		id 0x007 at idc0 drive 7
.fi
.ft R
.LP
.ft B
.nf
controller	idc1	at ipi ? csr 0x0001ff priority 2 # channel 0 slave 1
disk		id 0x010 at idc1 drive 0 	# facility 0
disk		id 0x011 at idc1 drive 1
disk		id 0x012 at idc1 drive 2
disk		id 0x013 at idc1 drive 3
disk		id 0x014 at idc1 drive 4
disk		id 0x015 at idc1 drive 5
disk		id 0x016 at idc1 drive 6
disk		id 0x017 at idc1 drive 7
.fi
.ft R
.LP
.ft B
.nf
controller	idc2	at ipi ? csr 0x0002ff priority 2 # channel 0 slave 2
disk		id 0x020 at idc2 drive 0 	# facility 0
disk		id 0x021 at idc2 drive 1
disk		id 0x022 at idc2 drive 2
disk		id 0x023 at idc2 drive 3
disk		id 0x024 at idc2 drive 4
disk		id 0x025 at idc2 drive 5
disk		id 0x026 at idc2 drive 6
disk		id 0x027 at idc2 drive 7
.fi
.ft R
.LP
.ft B
.nf
controller	idc3	at ipi ? csr 0x0003ff priority 2 # channel 0 slave 3
disk		id 0x030 at idc3 drive 0 	# facility 0
disk		id 0x031 at idc3 drive 1
disk		id 0x032 at idc3 drive 2
disk		id 0x033 at idc3 drive 3
disk		id 0x034 at idc3 drive 4
disk		id 0x035 at idc3 drive 5
disk		id 0x036 at idc3 drive 6
disk		id 0x037 at idc3 drive 7
.fi
.ft R
.LP
.ft B
.nf
controller	idc4	at ipi ? csr 0x0004ff priority 2  # channel 0 slave 4
disk		id 0x040 at idc4 drive 0 	# facility 0
disk		id 0x041 at idc4 drive 1
disk		id 0x042 at idc4 drive 2
disk		id 0x043 at idc4 drive 3
disk		id 0x044 at idc4 drive 4
disk		id 0x045 at idc4 drive 5
disk		id 0x046 at idc4 drive 6
disk		id 0x047 at idc4 drive 7
.fi
.ft R
.LP
The first four
.B controller
lines given in the synopsis section above correspond to
the first, second, third, and fourth
.SM IPI
disk controllers in a Sun system; the fifth controller is
currently available on \s-1SPARC\s0system 600MP series
machines only.
These controllers are on
.SM IPI
channels or combined on integrated
channel/disk-controller cards such as the
.SM ISP-80
.\" Panther
.SM IPI
disk controller.
The
.B csr
value gives the channel, slave, and facility address of the
controller.
The facility address should always be
.BR 0xff .
See
.BR is (4S).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "id device"  ""  "\fLid\fP \(em IPI Disk driver"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "IPI"  ""  "\fLid\fP \(em IPI Disk driver"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "IPI Disk driver"  ""  "IPI Disk driver \(em \fLid\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "disk driver"  "IPI"  ""  "\fLid\fP \(em "  PAGE START
.LP
In order to accommodate a large number of disk drives, a multiple major
number device addressing scheme is used.
The minor number is formed using
the low order 5 bits of the unit number and the 3-bit partition number.
The low-order 3 bits of the minor number give the partition number on the
drive.  
The high order bits of the unit number are added to the first major number
for
.B id
devices to give the major number of the particular device.
The unit number itself is formed as follows:
the 4-bit facility number forms the low order 4-bits,
next the 3-bit slave number,
and then the channel number.
.br
.ne 5
.LP
The standard device names begin with
.B id
followed by three hex digits giving the channel number, slave number, and
facility number, 
and then a letter
.BR a-h ,
for partitions 0-7 respectively.
.LP
The block files access the disk using the system's normal
buffering mechanism and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.
There is also a 
.I raw
interface which provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call usually results in only one I/O operation;
therefore raw I/O is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.
The names of the raw files conventionally
begin with an extra
.RB ` r '.
.LP
In raw I/O, counts should be a multiple of 512 bytes (a disk sector).
Likewise
.BR directory (3)
calls should specify a multiple of 512 bytes.
Depending on the channel adaptor, the buffer for raw reads or writes may
be required to be on a 2-byte or 4-byte boundary.
.LP
The
.B ioctl(\|)
interface described in 
.BR dkio (4S)
is supported by this driver.
The 
.SM DKIOCSCMD 
ioctl can be used to issue certain
.SM IPI
commands to the drive.
The argument structure is: 
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
struct dk_cmd {
	u_short	dkc_cmd;	/* command to be executed */
	int	dkc_flags;	/* execution flags */
	daddr_t	dkc_blkno;	/* disk address for command */
	int	dkc_secnt;	/* sector count for command */
	caddr_t	dkc_bufaddr;	/* user's buffer address */
	u_int	dkc_buflen;	/* size of user's buffer */
};
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
The lower 8-bits of the 
.B dkc_cmd 
field indicate one of the supported commands listed below.
The upper 8-bits indicate the
.SM IPI
Opcode modifier.
These commands are defined in 
.BR /usr/include/sundev/ipi3.h .
Block numbers are not remapped by the partition map when
these commands are used.
The supported commands are:
.TP
.SB IP_READ
.PD 0
.TP
.SB IP_WRITE
Read or write data.
The addressing is always by logical block (ignoring
.RB [ a-h ]
logical partition information); the Opcode modifier is ignored.
.PD
.TP
.PD 0
.SB IP_READ_DEFLIST
.TP
.SB IP_WRITE_DEFLIST
Read or write one of the defect lists.
The defect list is selected by the Opcode modifier in bits
<15:8> of the 
.BR dkc_cmd .
.PD
.TP
.SB IP_FORMAT
Format a range of cylinders.
For this command, the block number and sector
count fields must both be a multiple of the number of blocks per cylinder.
The 
.B dk_buflen 
field must be zero for this command.
.TP
.SB IP_REALLOC
Reallocate a block.
The controller attempts to recover the data from the
old block being reallocated.
If the old data cannot be recovered, a
conditional success status is presented and a message may be printed.
The 
.B dk_buflen 
field must be zero for this command.
.SH "DISK SUPPORT"
.LP
This driver handles all supported
.SM IPI
drives by reading controller attributes and a label from sector
0 of the drive which describes the disk geometry and partitioning.
.LP
The
.B id000a
partition is normally used for the root file system
on a disk, the
.B id0??b
partition as a paging area, and the
.B id???c
partition for pack-pack copying (it normally maps the entire disk).
The
.B id???g
partition is generally a partition suitable for holding the
.B /usr
file system.
The rest of the disk is normally the
.B id???h
partition.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /dev/id[0-7][0-7][0-7][a-h]
block files
.TP
.B /dev/rid[0-7][0-7][0-7][a-h]
raw files
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lseek (2),
.BR read (2V),
.BR write (2V),
.BR directory (3),
.BR dkio (4S)
.BR is (4S)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
The following messages are usually preceded by either 
.BI idc n\fR,
indicating a message associated with controller
.IR n ,
or
.BI id csf\fR,
indicating a message associated with the drive 
.IR csf ,
where
.I csf
is the drive's channel, slave, and facility address.
.TP
.B "idc\fIn\fP: configured with bad \s-1IPI\s0 address \fIaddr\fP"
The
.SM IPI
address of the controller should end with
.RB ` ff '.
.TP
.B "idc\fIn\fP: unknown ctlr vendor id: manuf '\fIname\fP' model '\fImodel\fP'"
The controller type is unsupported.
The driver has not been tested
with the controller being used.
.TP
.B "idc\fIn\fP: unknown string ctlr type"
The controller type is unsupported.
The driver has not been tested
with the controller being used.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: out of memory for label info"
The disk could not be initialized because the driver
could not allocate kernel memory for the label.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: warning: starting block address nonzero: \fIaddr\fP"
The disk attributes indicate a non-zero first block number.
None of the supported controllers do this.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: zero blocks per track"
The disk attributes indicate zero blocks per track.
None of the supported controllers do this.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: inconsistent geometry: blk/cyl \fInum\fP blk/trk \fInum\fP head \fInum\fP"
The disk attributes indicate  different number of
blocks per cylinder than would be expected from the blocks
per track and the number of tracks (heads).
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: inconsistent geometry: tot blks \fInum\fP blks/cyl \fInum\fP pcyl \fInum\fP"
The disk attributes indicate different number
of total blocks than would be expected from the blocks
per cylinder and the number of cylinders.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: invalid logical block size \fInum\fP"
The disk logical block size, given by the logical block size attribute 
parameter, is not a power of two less than 2**31.
.TP
.B "idintr: bad rupt \s-1NULL\s0 q_dev"
The interrupt routine was called with a request
that cannot be identified.
.TP
.B "idc\fIn\fP: ctlr message: '\fImessage-text\fP'"
The firmware in the disk controller issued the message
.IR message-text .
The controller manual should describe the message.
.TP
.B "idc\fIn\fP: ctlr failure fru \fInum\fP message: '\fImessage-text\fP'"
The firmware in the disk controller issued the 
failure message 
.IR message-text ,
and indicates a likely field-replaceable
unit number (printed in hex).
The controller manual should describe the message and
.SB FRU
number.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: corrupt label"
The label checksum mismatched.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: <\fI\s-1ASCII\s0-label\fP>"
The label contains an
.SM ASCII 
string which is printed after the label is read.
The
.SM ASCII
string should give the disk type and number of
cylinders, heads, and sectors.
.TP
.PD 0
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: warning: label doesn't match \s-1IPI\s0 attribute info"
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: label ncyl \fInum\fP pcyl \fInum\fP acyl \fInum\fP head \fInum\fP sect \fInum\fP rpm \fInum\fP"
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: geom ncyl \fInum\fP pcyl \fInum\fP acyl \fInum\fP head \fInum\fP sect \fInum\fP rpm \fInum\fP"
.PD
Some of the geometry information from the disk label
does not match the geometry information from
the controller attributes.
This may or may not be a problem,
but indicates a non-standard label.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: id_rdwr: block \fInum\fP past end of disk"
An
.B ioctl(\|)
read or write was issued to a block in a cylinder with a number
greater than or equal to the number of physical cylinders indicated by 
the disk geometry from the label or attributes.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: id_format failed. result \fInum\fP"
A format operation failed. 
The code number printed,
.IR num ,
is defined in 
.BR /usr/include/sundev/ipi_driver.h .
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: id_rdwr_deflist failed. result \fInum\fP"
A read or write defect list operation failed.
The code number printed,
.IR num ,
is defined in 
.BR /usr/include/sundev/ipi_driver.h .
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: id_realloc failed. result \fInum\fP"
A reallocation operation failed.
The code number printed,
.IR num ,
is defined in 
.BR /usr/include/sundev/ipi_driver.h .
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: \fIopcode\fP block \fIrel-block\fP (\fIblock\fP abs) idintr: bad rupt \s-1NULL\s0 qdev"
An interrupt occurred for which the associated
disk could not be located.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: \fIopcode\fP block \fIrel-block\fP (\fIblock\fP abs) idintr: neg cmd_q_len"
The driver's count of commands outstanding
to the drive became less than zero.
System operation should continue normally, but this message
indicates a minor driver problem.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: \fIopcode\fP block \fIrel-block\fP (\fIblock\fP abs) poll timeout"
A command hung or took longer than the driver expected.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: \fIopcode\fP block \fIrel-block\fP (\fIblock\fP abs) id_cmd_intr: ctlr cmd_q_len negative"
The driver's count of commands outstanding to the controller
became less than zero.
System operation should continue normally, but this message
indicates a minor driver problem.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: \fIopcode\fP block \fIrel-block\fP (\fIblock\fP abs) id_error: slave IML not supported"
An error response from the controller indicates
that it requires an initial microcode load.
If this message occurs, controllers which
issue this error are not supported.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: \fIopcode\fP block \fIrel-block\fP (\fIblock\fP abs) id_error: slave reset not supported"
An error response from the controller
indicates that it requires a reset.
If this message occurs, controllers which
issue this error are not supported.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: \fIopcode\fP block \fIrel-block\fP (\fIblock\fP abs) id_error: full queue: not handled"
An error response from the controller indicates
that its internal command queue is full,
and the command cannot be accepted.
This message should not occur because
the driver respects the queue limits
determined from the controller attributes.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: \fIopcode\fP block \fIrel-block\fP (\fIblock\fP abs) id_error: log read not supported"
The controller presented status indicating
that its internal log has 
overflowed and should be read by the host.
If this message occurs, controllers which
issue this status are not supported.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: \fIopcode\fP block \fIrel-block\fP (\fIblock\fP abs) id_error: aborted command not supported"
An interrupt indicated that the associated
command had been terminated by abort. 
If this message occurs, the driver does
not issue aborts or expect this status.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: \fIopcode\fP block \fIrel-block\fP (\fIblock\fP abs) id_error_parse: no response where expected"
An interrupt occurred which should have been
accompanied by a response packet,
but none was found.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: \fIopcode\fP block \fIrel-block\fP (\fIblock\fP abs) missing interrupt \- attempting recovery"
The command took much longer than expected,
indicating a possible problem 
with the controller or drive.
Recovery of the controller will be started,
and the command will be retried if possible.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: \fIopcode\fP block \fIrel-block\fP (\fIblock\fP abs) missing interrupt \- recovery in progress"
The command took much longer than expected,
indicating a possible problem 
with the controller or drive.
Since recovery was already in progress,
the command was added to the list
or commands to be retried after recovery.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: \fIopcode\fP block \fIrel-block\fP (\fIblock\fP abs) no memory for label"
The driver could not obtain a temporary
memory area for the disk label.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: \fIopcode\fP block \fIrel-block\fP (\fIblock\fP abs) cannot abort yet"
The recovery code cannot abort specific commands.
It will assume the command
was cleared by a reset and simply reissue the command.
.TP
.PD 0
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: id_recover     \fIstate-number\fP \fIstate-name\fP"
.TP
.B "idc\fInum\fP: id_recover     \fIstate-number\fP \fIstate-name\fP"
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP: id_recover_intr     \fIstate-number\fP \fIstate-name\fP \fIresult\fP"
.TP
.B "idc\fInum\fP: id_recover_intr     \fIstate-number\fP \fIstate-name\fP \fIresult\fP"
.PD
These messages trace the recovery action
during missing interrupt handling and controller recovery.
These are for diagnosing problems in the
event that recovery is unsuccessful.
.TP
.B "idc\fInum\fP: synchronous command setup failed"
During recovery or initialization,
the setup for a command failed, probably
due to an internal error or lack of free memory.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: write check disabled"
Write checking for the partition has been disabled via the \f\s-1IDKIOCWCHK\s0\fP
ioctl() function.
See
.BR dkio (4S)
and
.BR dkctl (8).
This message is issued whether or not write checking was previously
disabled for that partition.
.TP
.B "id\fIcsf\fP[a-h]: write check enabled"
Write checking for the partition has been enabled via the \f\s-1IDKIOCWCHK\s0\fP
ioctl() function, possibly by
.BR dkctl (8).
See
.BR dkio (4S)
and
.BR dkctl (8),
This message is issued whether or not write checking was previously
enabled for that partition.
Write checking, when enabled, causes the driver to perform a read after
every write to the partition to verify that the write succeeded.
If the read fails, the write will be retried.
.SH "IPI DIAGNOSTICS"
.LP
The following diagnostics come directly from controller status.
The messages may occur in combinations determined by the controller.
In most cases, more information about the conditions under which the
status is issued will be found in the controller manual.
.LP
In the examples shown, the message for the response parameter
is shown first, then the message for a single bit in the response
parameter.
In practice, there will be a response parameter message
followed by one or more messages for the individual bits, all on the
same line.
.LP
The messages will be preceded by the disk or controller number.
The message descriptions refer to the appropriate disk or controller
as the addressee, since it was addressed in the command or response.
.LP
Normally, these messages are not printed when the condition described
arises.
They will only be printed if the condition is \*(lqinteresting.\*(rq
Certain conditions print all of the messages associated with a response,
even though the individual messages might not be 
especially interesting.
.LP
The description of the message meaning is excerpted from the 
.SM IPI\s0-3 
standards document.
Refer to it for a more complete explanation.
.TP
.B "Message/Microcode Exception.  Message."
The slave has included a message within Extended Substatus
for the master.
.TP
.B "Message/Microcode Exception.  Failure Message."
The slave encountered a failure condition which
resulted in the identification of a
.SM FRU
(Field Replaceable Unit).
.TP
.B "Message/Microcode Exception.  Port Disable Pending."
The addressee has received a manual or
programmed Port Disable command that will take effect when the Disable
conditions are met.
.TP
.B "Message/Microcode Exception.  Port Response."
A port has executed a Port Response command. 
.TP
.B "Intervention Required.  Not P-Available."
The selected addressee is not powered on or is not
installed.
.TP
.B "Intervention Required.  Not Ready."
The selected addressee cannot execute its intended
functions.
The addressee's Not Ready condition may be cleared by
operator intervention.
.TP
.B "Intervention Required.  Not P-Available Transition."
This is presented by the controller to
advise the driver that a facility has become Not P-Available since the
time that a command addressed to it was accepted.
Note: if the
transition had occurred before the command packet was accepted, the
status would have been Not P-Available.
.TP
.B "Intervention Required.  Not Ready Transition."
This is presented by the controller to advise the
driver that a facility has dropped ready since the time that a command
addressed to it was accepted.
Note: if the transition had occurred
before the command packet was accepted,
the status would have been Not Ready.
.TP
.B "Intervention Required.  Attribute Table may be corrupted."
The controller has encountered a
condition under which it is possible that the Attributes table has been
corrupted, and it is not prepared to continue operation without master
intervention.
.TP
.B "Intervention Required.  Busy."
The command cannot be executed because the addressee
has been Busy for a time determined by the Facility Timeout Value
specified in Attributes.
.TP
.B "Alternate Port Exception.  Priority Reserve Issued."
The addressee has been instructed to
release allegiance to this port because of a Priority Reserve from an
alternate port.
.TP
.B "Alternate Port Exception.  Attributes Updated."
An Attributes command has been issued from an
alternate port which has changed the addressee's attributes.
.TP
.B "Alternate Port Exception.  Initialization Completed."
The addressee has completed an
initialization procedure which may have affected this port, and was
originated by a Reset from an alternate port.
.TP
.B "Alternate Port Exception.  Format Completed."
The addressee has completed a
.SB FORMAT
command from an alternate port.
.TP
.B "Alternate Port Exception.  Facility switched to other port."
The slave has determined that the
facility is switched to another port.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  No longer busy."
The addressee is notifying the master that it is no longer busy.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  P-Available."
This is presented asynchronously by the
slave to advise the master that a facility which was previously Not
P-Available has become P-Available.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Ready."
This is presented asynchronously by the slave to
advise the master that a facility which was not previously ready has
become Ready.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Operation Timeout."
There has been a failure condition in the
addressee which has been detected by an internal timeout mechanism.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Physical Interface Check."
The slave detected a check condition on
the Physical Interface \(em for example,
an invalid sequence generated by the "state
machine" or parity error on the bus(es).
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Slave Initiated Reset."
An internal condition caused the slave to
initiate a reset; the master shall assume all outstanding commands and
buffer contents are either lost or suspect.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Environmental Error."
Some condition internal or external to the
addressee has been detected which may cause failure condition(s) \(em 
for example, a temperature sensor alert.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Power Fail Alert."
The addressee has detected an impending power failure condition.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Data Check (on Raw Data)."
The master has requested raw data and the
addressee has detected a data error.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Uncorrectable Data Check."
The slave detected a
data error which has persisted after the slave has exhausted any
possible recovery actions.
On write operations, the malfunction may
have caused invalid data to be recorded.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Fatal Error."
The addressee detected an internal machine error that
precludes execution or continuation of the current command.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Hardware Write Protected."
An attempt was made to write on a drive
that was protected against writing by something physical \(em
for example, a switch on the drive.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Queue Full."
The command queue for the addressee is full.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Command Failure."
The command in execution encountered a condition which
caused it to complete correctly but unsuccessfully;
for example, a
.SB COMPARE
of two files detected a discrepancy.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Read Access Violation."
An attempt was made to read on an addressee
which had been protected using Access Permits.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Write Access Violation."
An attempt was made to write on an addressee
which had been protected using Access Permits.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Data Overrun."
This can occur during direct data transfer, or if the
slave has a buffer which was not adequate, and the buffer overran during
a read or a write operation.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Reallocation space exhausted."
Space required for reallocation of
data due to media defects is not available; that is,
all space assigned for
that purpose has been exhausted.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Unexpected Master Action."
The slave has encountered an unexpected
action by the master; for example, the
Master Status at the Physical Interface does
not correlate to the anticipated status, no status was expected and
some was presented by the master, the master did not respond with Data
I/O or Control of Bus following a Transfer Notification packet.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Error Log Full."
The Error Log capacity has been exceeded.
.TP
.B "Machine Exception.  Defect Directory Full."
The Defect Directory capacity has been
exceeded and no more blocks can be re-allocated.
.TP
.B "Command Exception.  Invalid Packet Length."
The packet length is invalid; for example, the length
of the parameter list plus the basic packet does not equal the packet
length.
.TP
.B "Command Exception.  Invalid Command Reference Number."
The Command Reference Number is
invalid; for example, it duplicates one in a command that is currently active.
.TP
.B "Command Exception.  Invalid Slave Address."
The Slave Address in the command packet is
invalid; for example, it does not match the selected slave's address.
.TP
.B "Command Exception.  Invalid Facility Address."
The Facility Address in the command packet
is invalid.
.TP
.B "Command Exception.  Invalid Selection Address."
The facility selected at the Physical
Interface does not match the facility address supplied in the command
packet. 
.TP
.B "Command Exception.  Invalid Opcode."
The command packet contained an invalid or unsupported Opcode.
.TP
.B "Command Exception.  Invalid Modifier."
The Modifier was invalid or is not supported for the Opcode specified.
.TP
.B "Command Exception.  Invalid Extent."
The Data Address (for example, the block number) plus the Count specified in an
Extent parameter is not valid for the addressee.
.TP
.B "Command Exception.  Out of Context."
The slave has encountered a situation in which it
cannot process the command because it considers it out of context \(em for
example, a
.SB RESUME
command without a previous 
.BR \s-1COPY\s0.
.TP
.B "Command Exception.  Invalid Parameter."
One or more of the parameters in the command
packet was invalid.
.TP
.B "Command Exception.  Missing Parameter."
One or more of the parameters required in the command is not present. 
.TP
.B "Command Exception.  Reserved Value nonzero."
A reserved value defined by the standard does not contain zero.
.TP
.B "Command Exception.  Invalid Combination."
The addressee has detected that two valid but
mutually exclusive options have been selected by the master.
.TP
.B "Command Aborted.  Command Aborted."
The command this response packet is related to was
.BR \s-1ABORT\s0 ed
by the master.
.TP
.B "Command Aborted.  Command Sequence Terminated."
Command Sequencing was terminated
because this command failed to complete successfully.
.TP
.B "Command Aborted.  Unexecuted Command from Terminated Sequence."
The command related to
this response packet was not executed but was terminated because a prior
command which was sequenced to it failed to complete successfully.
.TP
.B "Command Aborted.  Command Chain Terminated."
Command Chaining was terminated because
this command failed to complete successfully.
.TP
.B "Command Aborted.  Unexecuted Command from Terminated Chain."
The command related to
this response packet was not executed but was terminated because a prior
command which was chained to it failed to complete successfully.
.TP
.B "Command Aborted.  Command Order Terminated."
Command Ordering was terminated because
this command failed to complete successfully.
.TP
.B "Command Aborted.  Unexecuted Command from Terminated Order."
The command related to
this response packet was not executed but was terminated because a prior
command which was ordered to it failed to complete successfully.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Logging Data Appended."
The slave has appended information in this
response which the slave is advising the master is relevant to be
logged.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Abort Received \- no Command Active."
An
.SB ABORT
command was issued to an addressee in the L-Available
condition but the referenced command could
not be found.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Abort Received \- Status Pending."
An
.SB ABORT
command was issued to an addressee which has the response
status for the referenced command
pending; for example, the command has been completed.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Abort Received \- Not Operational."
An
.SB ABORT
command was issued to a facility which is Not Operational.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Anticipated Error."
The addressee has detected a condition which may
result in future error conditions; for example, on disc
seek retries were needed.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Anticipated Data Error."
The addressee has detected a condition which
may result in future data errors; for example, successive retries were
needed for reading disk data.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Re-allocation Required."
The addressee has detected a data error
condition which requires reallocation action \(em for example, an
unrecoverable read error.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Re-allocation Discontinuity."
The slave has automatically reallocated
a block which contained a data error and the reallocated data is no
longer in close proximity to the blocks previously contiguous to it.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Defect Directory Threshold Exceeded."
The threshold within the
addressee's Defect Directory has been exceeded, indicating that there is
a limited number of entries remaining for adding more defects.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Error Retry Performed."
The addressee has completed the command but
error retry had to be invoked.
Note: Error Retry does not include
actions associated with data transfer.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Data Retry Performed."
The addressee has completed the command but
data retry had to be invoked \(em for example, a physical re-read.
Data Retry includes
all actions associated with the transfer of data.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Motion Retry Performed."
The addressee has completed the command but
motion retry had to be invoked.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Data Correction Performed."
The addressee has completed the command
but data correction had to be applied.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Soft Error."
The slave detected an internal machine error that did
not preclude execution or continuation of the current command.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Release of Unreserved Addressee."
The addressee has received a
release command for which there is no reservation.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Request Diagnostic Control Command."
As a result of executing a
diagnostic command which provided more information than can be returned
by a Response, the addressee is requesting that the master issue a
Diagnostic Read Command.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Error Log Request."
The master is requested to capture the contents
of the Error Log (which contains manufacturer dependent information)
because the threshold has been exceeded.
.br
.ne 8
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Statistics Update Requested."
There has been a change in meaningful
statistics during the execution of this command, and the master is
requested to update its Statistics Table (if any).
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Parameter Update Requested."
There has been a change in meaningful
device parameters during the execution of this command, and the master
is requested to update its Statistics Table (if any).
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Asynchronous Event Occurrence."
An asynchronous event has occurred
which may be described further in Extended Status.
.TP
.B "Conditional Success.  Master Terminated Transfer."
The previous Information Transfer which had
a Master Termination Parameter, was terminated by the master.
.TP
.B "Incomplete.  Command May be Resumed."
This status is used to advise the master that an otherwise successful
command did not complete.
The incomplete command remains on the
slave's queue, and its Command Reference Number shall remain valid,
until the command is resumed or aborted. 
.TP
.B "Incomplete.  Response Packet Truncated."
The maximum Information Transfer Length
specified by the attributes was exceeded by the response packet, which
was truncated at that size, and the response is considered complete by
the slave.
.TP
.B "Incomplete.  Data Length Difference."
The addressee has not transferred all the
information specified in a transfer command.
.IX  "id device"  ""  "\fLid\fP \(em IPI Disk driver"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "IPI"  ""  "\fLid\fP \(em IPI Disk driver"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "IPI Disk driver"  ""  "IPI Disk driver \(em \fLid\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "disk driver"  "IPI"  ""  "\fLid\fP \(em "  PAGE START
