.\" @(#)ie.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH IE 4S "7 October 1990"
.SH NAME
ie \- Intel 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-4 SYSTEM"
.ft B
.nf
device ie0 at obio ? csr 0xf6000000 priority 3
device ie1 at vme24d16 ? csr 0xe88000 priority 3 vector ieintr 0x75
device ie2 at vme24d16 ? csr 0x31ff02 priority 3 vector ieintr 0x76
device ie3 at vme24d16 ? csr 0x35ff02 priority 3 vector ieintr 0x77
device ie4 at vme24d16 ? csr 0x2dff02 priority 3 vector ieintr 0x7c
.ft R
.fi
.LP
.B ie4
is supported on the SPARCsystems 300 and 400 only.
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-3x SYSTEM"
.ft B
.nf
device ie0 at obio ? csr 0x65000000 priority 3
device ie1 at vme24d16 ? csr 0xe88000 priority 3 vector ieintr 0x75
device ie2 at vme24d32 ? csr 0x31ff02 priority 3 vector ieintr 0x76
device ie3 at vme24d32 ? csr 0x35ff02 priority 3 vector ieintr 0x77
.fi
.ft R
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-3 SYSTEM"
.ft B
.nf
device ie0 at obio ? csr 0xc0000 priority 3
device ie1 at vme24d16 ? csr 0xe88000 priority 3 vector ieintr 0x75
device ie2 at vme24d32 ? csr 0x31ff02 priority 3 vector ieintr 0x76
device ie3 at vme24d32 ? csr 0x35ff02 priority 3 vector ieintr 0x77
.fi
.ft R
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-3E SYSTEM"
.ft B
.nf
device ie0 at vme24d16 ? csr 0x31ff02 priority 3 vector ieintr 0x74
.ft R
.fi
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN386i SYSTEM"
.ft B
.nf
device ie0 at obmem ? csr 0xD0000000 irq 21 priority 3
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ie device"  ""  "\fLie\fP \(em Sun 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "Sun 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface"  ""  "Sun 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface \(em \fLie\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "10 Mb/s Sun Ethernet interface"  ""  "10 Mb/s Sun Ethernet interface \(em \fLie\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "Ethernet controller"  "ie"  ""  "\fLie\fP \(em Sun Ethernet interface"  PAGE START
.LP
The
.B ie
interface provides access to a 10 Mb/s Ethernet network
through a controller using the Intel 82586 
.SM LAN
Coprocessor chip.
For a general description of network interfaces see
.BR if (4N).
.LP
.B ie0
specifies a
.SM CPU\s0-board-resident
interface, except on a Sun-3E where
.B ie0
is the Sun-3/E Ethernet expansion board.
.B ie1
specifies a
Multibus Intel Ethernet interface for use with a
.SM VME
adapter.
.B ie2
and
.B ie3
specify
SunNet Ethernet/VME Controllers,
also known as a 
Sun-3/E Ethernet expansion boards.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR if (4N),
.BR le (4S)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.LP
There are too many driver messages to list them all individually here.
Some of the more common messages and their meanings follow.
.TP
.B ie%d: Ethernet jammed
Network activity has become so intense that sixteen
successive transmission attempts failed,
and the 82586 gave up on the current packet.
Another possible cause of this message is a noise source
somewhere in the network,
such as a loose transceiver connection.
.TP
.B ie%d: no carrier
The 82586 has lost input to its carrier detect pin
while trying to transmit a packet,
causing the packet to be dropped.
Possible causes include an open circuit somewhere in the network
and noise on the carrier detect line from the transceiver.
.TP
.B ie%d: lost interrupt: resetting
The driver and 82586 chip have lost synchronization with each other.
The driver recovers by resetting itself and the chip.
.TP
.B ie%d: iebark reset
The 82586 failed to complete
a watchdog timeout command in the allotted time.
The driver recovers by resetting itself and the chip.
.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B ie%d: \s-1WARNING\s0: requeuing
The driver has run out of resources while getting a packet
ready to transmit.
The packet is put back on the output queue for retransmission
after more resources become available.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B ie%d: panic: scb overwritten
The driver has discovered that memory that should remain
unchanged after initialization has become corrupted.
This error usually is a symptom of a bad 82586 chip.
.TP
.B ie%d: giant packet
Provided that all stations on the Ethernet are operating
according to the Ethernet specification, this error \*(lqshould
never happen,\*(rq since the driver allocates its receive buffers
to be large enough to hold packets of the largest permitted size.
The most likely cause of this message is that some other station
on the net is transmitting packets whose lengths exceed the maximum
permitted for Ethernet.
.IX  "ie device"  ""  "\fLie\fP \(em Sun 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "Sun 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface"  ""  "Sun 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface \(em \fLie\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "10 Mb/s Sun Ethernet interface"  ""  "10 Mb/s Sun Ethernet interface \(em \fLie\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "Ethernet controller"  "ie"  ""  "\fLie\fP \(em Sun Ethernet interface"  PAGE END
