.\" @(#)ipi.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH IPI 4S "19 March 1991"
.SH NAME
ipi \- IPI driver
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-4, SPARCsystem 600MP SERIES"
.ft B
.nf
controller	ipi \fIcpu-type\fP at nexus ?
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ipi bus"  ""  "\fLipi\sfP \(em IPI driver"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "ipi"  ""  "\fLipi\sfP \(em IPI driver"  ""  PAGE START
.LP
The controller line above declares the pseudo-bus
.SM IPI\s0,
providing a connection between 
.SM IPI
device drivers and
.SM IPI
channel drivers (also known as host adaptor drivers).
Declaring the bus pulls in this middle layer of the
.SM IPI
drivers, so the
.SM IPI
bus declaration should be omitted if there are no
.SM IPI
drivers.
See
.BR id (4S)
and
.BR is (4S).
The \fIcpu-type\fP number should be the same as that used in the
.B obio
declaration.
.SH FILES
.LP
This driver supports only an interface to other drivers, and therefore
does not have any special file access to user programs.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR id (4S),
.BR is (4S)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 
.B "ipi_alloc \fIcsf\fP: invalid \s-1IPI\s0 address"
A device driver called
.B ipi_alloc(\|)
for a device on a non-existent channel
or for an illegal slave address.
.TP 
.B "ipi_async: ipi \fIcsf\fP slave number out of range"
A channel driver called
.B ipi_async(\|)
with a response packet containing
an illegal slave address.
.TP 
.B "ipi_setup \fIcsf\fP: invalid IPI address"
An
.SM IPI
device driver used an incorrect
.SM IPI
address.
The channel, slave, or facility number was out of range. 
This could be a configuration problem.
.TP 
.B "ipi \fIcsf\fP: channel not configured"
This message is printed when a channel driver makes an invalid call
to the
.SM IPI
driver.
.TP 
.B "ipi_async: \s-1IPI\s0 channel \fIc\fP not configured"
The channel driver made an invalid call to
.BR ipi_async(\|) .
.TP 
.B "ipi_channel: No memory to add channel \fIc\fP"
Dynamic memory allocation failed.
.TP 
.B "ipi_channel:  no memory to alloc channel \fIc\fP"
Dynamic memory allocation failed.
.TP 
.B "ipi_channel: channel \fIc\fP already defined"
A channel driver tried to add a channel which was previously assigned
to a channel driver.
This could be caused by a configuration problem.
.TP 
.B "ipi_free_chan: channel \fIc\fP not allocated"
A channel driver attempted to delete a channel which had never been added.
.TP 
.B "ipi channel \fIc\fP deleted"
A channel driver deleted the channel because the channel device 
failed to respond.
.TP 
.B "ipi: assign_refnum:  q \fIaddr\fP already has refnum \fIr\fP"
A command reference number is being assigned to a command that already
had a reference number.
This indicates a driver problem.
.TP 
.B "free_refnum: q \fIaddr\fP refnum \fIr\fP lookup \fIl-addr\fP"
The driver was freeing an
.SM IPI
request at address
.IR addr ,
and found that the reference number it used,
.IR r ,
was assigned to another request at address
.IR l-addr .
.TP 
.PD 0
.B "ipi_lookup:  found wrong command for refnum"
.TP 
.B "ipi_lookup:  looking for \fIr\fP, found \fIfr\fP q \fIaddr\fP
The driver was looking for a command with a particular reference number,
.IR r ,
but the lookup table found one with a different reference number,
.IR fr .
These messages are always received together.
.PD
.TP 
.B "ipi \fIcsf\fP: missing interrupt.  refnum \fIr\fP"
The driver detected that a command took longer than the device driver
expected it to take.
This message will be followed by other messages
from the device driver.
.IX  "ipi bus"  ""  "\fLipi\sfP \(em IPI driver"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "ipi"  ""  "\fLipi\sfP \(em IPI driver"  ""  PAGE END
