.\" @(#)is.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH IS 4S "19 March 1991"
.SH NAME
is \- IPI channel driver for Sun IPI string controllers
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-4, SPARCsystem 600MP SERIES"
.ft B
.nf
controller	isc0	at vme32d32 ? csr 0x01080000 priority 2 vector isintr 0x4c
channel		is0	at isc0 ipi_addr 0x00000	# channel 0 slave 0
controller	isc1	at vme32d32 ? csr 0x01080400 priority 2 vector isintr 0x4d
channel		is1	at isc1 ipi_addr 0x00100	# channel 0 slave 1
controller	isc2	at vme32d32 ? csr 0x01080800 priority 2 vector isintr 0x4e
channel		is2	at isc2 ipi_addr 0x00200	# channel 0 slave 2
controller	isc3	at vme32d32 ? csr 0x01080c00 priority 2 vector isintr 0x4f
channel		is3	at isc3 ipi_addr 0x00300	# channel 0 slave 3
controller	isc4	at vme32d32 ? csr 0x01081000 priority 2 vector isintr 0x50
channel		is4	at isc4 ipi_addr 0x00400	# channel 0 slave 4
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "is device"  ""  "\fLis\fP \(em IPI disk driver"  ""  PAGE START
.LP
The first four
.B controller
and 
.B channel
lines given in the synopsis section above correspond to
the first, second, third, and fourth
.SM ISP\s0-80
.SM IPI
disk controllers in a Sun system; the fifth controller and channel
pair are currently available on \s-1SPARC\s0system 600MP series
machines only.
These controllers are treated as integrated
channel/disk-controller cards,
in that there are two drivers that
manage them.
This driver, the
.B is
driver, presents a generic
.SM IPI\s0-3
interface to the 
.B id
driver, which handles the controller as if it were a channel-attached
.SM IPI\s0-3
controller.
See
.BR id (4S).
.LP
The
.B csr
value gives the
.SM VME
address of the controller. 
The 
.B ipi_addr
field gives the 3-byte channel, slave, and facility address supported
by the controller; the facility address portion is ignored and should
be specified as zero.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR id (4S)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 
.B "isc\fIn\fP: channel reset timed out"
The probe routine, called during system initialization, determined that
the controller reset, initiated by the boot, had not completed in the
allotted time.
The controller cannot be used.
.TP
.B "isc\fIn\fP: bad \s-1IPI\s0 address \fIaddr\fP"
The specified address contained a slave address larger than 7.
.TP
.B "isc\fIn\fP: interrupt vector not specified in config"
The configuration did not specify an interrupt vector for the controller.
.TP
.B "is\fIn\fP: refnum lookup on success failed.  refnum \fIrefnum\fP"
A completion interrupt occurred for a command which was unknown to the 
controller.
The interrupt is ignored.
.TP
.B "is\fIn\fP: response too short.  len \fIl\fP min \fIm\fP response \fIr\fP"
The response packet presented in an interrupt was too short to contain
a valid header.
The response is printed, but otherwise the
interrupt is ignored.
.TP
.B "is\fIn\fP: response too long.   max \fIm\fP len \fIl\fP truncating"
The response packet is longer than the maximum,
.IR m ,
for this controller,
.TP
.B "is\fIn\fP: is_reset_slave: resetting slave"
The driver is resetting the controller under  direction
from  the
.B id 
disk driver.
This occurs during recovery
from timed out requests, also known as missing interrupts.
.TP
.B "is\fIn\fP: is_reset_slave: slave reset not enabled"
The
.B id
driver attempted  to  reset  the  controller  to
recovery from an error, but the driver has been set to
disable such resets.
.TP
.B "is\fIn\fP: ctlr reset timed out"
The reset of the controller took longer than expected
and has presumably failed.
.TP
.B "isc\fIn\fP: response reg \fIr\fP not same as packet refnum \fIref\fP "
After reading a response packet,
the response register was read and did not
match the command reference number in the response packet.
This could indicate a problem with the driver or the controller.
.TP
.B "isc\fIn\fP: error status \fIs\fP response \fIr\fP "
The controller presented error status code
.I s
and a response register value of
.IR r .
These will be interpreted by messages that follow.
.TP
.B "isc\fIn\fP: ctlr fault \fIf\fP - bus error on cmd refnum \fIr\fP"
The controller reported a bus error while fetching the command.
.TP
.B "isc\fIn\fP: ctlr fault \fIf\fP - timeout on cmd refnum \fIr\fP"
The controller reported a
.SM VME
timeout while fetching the command.
.TP
.B "isc\fIn\fP: ctlr fault \fIf\fP - invalid command reg write on cmd refnum \fIr\fP"
The controller indicates that the command register
was written after the controller has panicked.
.\" [check with Dave on this ---- ]
.TP
.B "isc\fIn\fP: ctlr fault \fIf\fP - unknown fault code on cmd refnum \fIr\fP"
The controller has presented an unknown fault code in its status.
.IX  "is device"  ""  "\fLis\fP \(em IPI disk driver"  ""  PAGE END
