.\" @(#)kbd.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH KBD 4S "24 November 1987"
.SH NAME
kbd \- Sun keyboard
.SH CONFIG
None; included in standard system.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "keyboard device"  ""  "\fLkbd\fP \(em Sun keyboard"  ""
.IX  "Sun keyboard device"  ""  "Sun keyboard device \(em \fLkbd\fP"  ""
.LP
The
.B kbd
device provides access to the Sun Workstation keyboard.  When
opened, it provides access to the standard keyboard device for the
workstation (attached either to a
.SM CPU
serial or parallel port).  It
is a multiplexing driver; a stream referring to the standard keyboard
device, with the
.BR kb (4M)
and
.BR ttcompat (4M)
.SM STREAMS
modules pushed on top of that device, is linked below it.
Normally, this device passes input to the ``workstation console''
driver, which is linked above a special minor device of
.BR kbd ,
so that keystrokes appear as input on
.BR /dev/console ;
the
.SB KIOCSDIRECT
.B ioctl
must be used to direct input towards or away from the
.B /dev/kbd
device.
.SH IOCTLS
.TP 15
.SB KIOCSDIRECT
The argument is a pointer to an
.BR int .
If the value in the
.B int
pointed to by the argument is 1, subsequent keystrokes typed on the system
keyboard will sent to
.BR /dev/kbd ;
if it is 0, subsequent keystrokes will be sent to the ``workstation console''
device.  When the last process that has
.B /dev/kbd
open closes it, if keystrokes had been sent to
.B /dev/kbd
they are redirected back to the ``workstation console'' device.
.TP
.SB KIOCGDIRECT
The argument is a pointer to an
.BR int .
If keystrokes are currently being sent to
.BR /dev/kbd ,
1 is stored in the
.B int
pointed to by the argument; if keystrokes are currently being sent to the
``workstation console'' device, 0 is stored there.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/kbd
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO
.BR console (4S),
.BR kb (4M),
.BR ttcompat (4M),
.BR win (4S),
.BR zs (4S)
