.\" @(#)le.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH LE 4S "22 June 1992"
.SH NAME
le \- LANCE 10Mb/s Ethernet interface
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-4/3xx, SUN-4/xx SYSTEMS"
.ft B
.nf
device le0 at obio ? csr 0xf9000000 priority 3
.ft R
.fi
.SH "CONFIG \(em Desktop SPARCsystems, SPARCsystem 600MP SERIES"
.ft B
.nf
device-driver le
device-driver lebuf
device-driver ledma
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "le device"  ""  "\fLle\fP \(em LANCE 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "LANCE 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface"  ""  "LANCE 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface \(em \fLle\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "Ethernet controller"  "le"  ""  "\fLle\fP \(em 10 Mb/s LANCE Ethernet interface"  PAGE START
.LP
The
.B le
interface provides access to a 10 Mb/s Ethernet network through a
controller using the
.SM AMD
.SM LANCE
(Local Area Network Controller for Ethernet)
Am7990 chip.
For a general description of network interfaces see
.BR if (4N).
The
.B lebuf
and
.B ledma
device drivers, when present, support hardware-specific 
buffering and DMA for each
.B le
interface.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 10
.B
le%d: out of mbufs: output packet dropped\ \&
The driver has run out of memory to use to buffer
packets on output.
The packet being transmitted at the time of occurrence is lost.
This error is usually symptomatic of trouble elsewhere in the kernel.
.TP
.B
le%d: out of tmds - packet dropped\ \&
The driver has run out of transmit message descriptors
needed to queue a packet to the
.SM LANCE
and discarded the packet.
This error usually indicates that the upper protocol
layers are generating packets faster than the
driver can transmit them on the ethernet
and is usually self\(hycorrecting.
.TP
.B
le%d: trailer error\ \&
An incoming packet claimed to have a trailing header but did not.
.TP
.B
le%d: RINT with buffer owned by chip\ \&
The
.SM LANCE
has generated a receive interrupt
but the driver finds no packets have been received.
This causes the driver to reinitialize the chip.
.TP
.B
le%d: runt packet\ \&
An incoming packet's size was below the Ethernet minimum transmission size.
.TP
.B
le%d: Receive: overflow error\ \&
Indicates that the receiver has lost all or part
of an incoming packet due to an inability
to store the packet in a memory buffer
before the
.SM LANCE
internal silo overflowed.
.TP
.B
le%d: Receive: \s-1BUFF\s0 set in rmd\ \&
This error \*(lqshould never happen,\*(rq
as it occurs only in conjunction with a
.SM LANCE
feature that the driver does not use.
.TP
.B
le%d: Receive: framming error\ \&
The driver has received a packet
containing a noninteger multiple of eight bits
and there was a CRC error.
.TP
.B
le%d: Receive: crc error\ \&
The driver has received a packet with an incorrect checksum field.
.TP
.B
le%d: Receive: \s-1STP\s0 in rmd cleared\ \&
The driver has received a packet that straddles multiple receive buffers
and therefore consumes more than one of the
.SM LANCE
chip's receive descriptors.
Provided that all stations on the Ethernet
are operating according to the Ethernet specification,
this error \*(lqshould never happen,\*(rq
since the driver allocates its receive buffers to be large enough
to hold packets of the largest permitted size.
Most likely, some other station
on the net is transmitting packets whose lengths
exceed the maximum permitted for Ethernet.
.br
.ne 8
.TP
.B
le%d: Receive: \s-1ENP\s0 in rmd cleared\ \&
The driver has received a packet that straddles multiple receive buffers
and therefore consumes more than one of the
.SM LANCE
chip's receive descriptors.
Provided that all stations on the Ethernet
are operating according to the Ethernet specification,
this error \*(lqshould never happen,\*(rq
since the driver allocates its receive buffers to be large enough
to hold packets of the largest permitted size.
The most likely cause of the message is that some other station
on the net is transmitting packets whose lengths
exceed the maximum permitted for Ethernet.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B
le%d: Transmit: \s-1BUFF\s0 set in tmd\ \&
Excessive bus contention has prevented the
.SM LANCE
chip
from gathering packet contents quickly enough to sustain
the packet's transmission over the Ethernet.
The affected packet is lost.
.TP
.B
le%d: Transmit underflow\ \&
The transmitter has truncated
a packet due to data late from memory.
.TP
.B
le%d: Transmit late collision \-  Net problem?
A packet collision has occurred
after the channel's slot time has elapsed.
This error usually indicates faulty hardware elsewhere on the net.
.TP
.B
le%d: No carrier \- transceiver cable problem?
The
.SM LANCE
chip has lost input to its carrier detect pin
while trying to transmit a packet.
.TP
.B
le%d: No carrier \- twisted pair cable problem or hub link test disabled?
\s-1SPARC\s0station 10 system only.
.IP
The
.SM LANCE
chip has lost input to its carrier detect pin
while trying to transmit a packet.
.IP
The
.SM TPE
(Twisted-Pair Ethernet)
in the \s-1SPARC\s0station 10 system has a test feature that verifies
the Ethernet cable connection between the \s-1SPARC\s0station 10 system
and the Ethernet hub. In order for this feature to function correctly,
the Ethernet hub must support the link test feature and it must be
turned on in the hub.
If the hub doesn't support the link test or if the link test is
disabled in the hub, you will see this error message during the
system boot.
.IP
If you receive this message indicating cable problems, first check the
cable.  If no cable problem can be found then check for a link integrity
mismatch.  If there is a link integrity mismatch, you may
enable the link test feature in your Ethernet hub (usually by turning
a switch on), or you may disable the link test in your \s-1SPARC\s0station
10 system.
.IP
If the link test is enabled in the hub while the link integrity test
is disabled in the \s-1SPARC\s0station 10 system, the \s-1SPARC\s0station
10 system will not be able to communicate with other systems properly.
You may disable the link test feature in your Ethernet hub (usually by
turning a switch off), or you may enable the link test in your
\s-1SPARC\s0station 10 system.
.IP
To enable/disable the link test in the \s-1SPARC\s0station 10
system at the system level, see
.BR eeprom (8S).
To enable/disable the link test in the \s-1SPARC\s0station 10 system
at the OBP's ok prompt, enter the OBP command
.B
help ethernet
and press \s-1RETURN\s0 to receive more information.
.TP
.B
le%d: Transmit retried more than 16 times \- net jammed\ \&
Network activity has become so intense that sixteen successive
transmission attempts failed, the
.SM LANCE
chip gave up on the current packet.
.TP
.B
le%d: missed packet\ \&
The driver has dropped an incoming packet
because it had no buffer space for it.
.TP
.B
le%d: Babble error \- sent a packet longer than the maximum length\ \&
While transmitting a packet, the
.SM LANCE
chip has noticed that the packet's length exceeds
the maximum allowed for Ethernet (1518 bytes).
This error indicates a kernel bug.
.TP
.B
le%d: Memory Error!\ \&
The
.SM LANCE
chip timed out while trying to acquire the bus
for a
.SM DVMA
transfer.
.TP
.B
le%d: Reception stopped\ \&
Because of some other error,
the receive section of the
.SM LANCE
chip shut down
and had to be reinitialized.
.TP
.B
le%d: Transmission stopped\ \&
Because of some other error,
the transmit section of the
.SM LANCE
chip shut down
and had to be reinitialized.
.IX  "le device"  ""  "\fLle\fP \(em LANCE 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "LANCE 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface"  ""  "LANCE 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface \(em \fLle\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "Ethernet controller"  "le"  ""  "\fLle\fP \(em 10 Mb/s LANCE Ethernet interface"  PAGE END
