.\" @(#)lofs.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH LOFS 4S "18 May 1989"
.SH NAME
lofs \- loopback virtual file system
.SH CONFIG
.B options \s-1LOFS\s0
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <sys/mount.h>
mount(\s-1MOUNT_LOFS\s0, virtual, flags, dir);
.fi
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "loopback file system"
.LP
The loopback file system device allows new, virtual file systems
to be created, which provide access to existing files using
alternate pathnames.
Once the virtual file system is created,
other file systems can be mounted within it without affecting the
original file system.
File systems that are subsequently mounted onto
the original file system, however,
.I are
visible to the virtual file system, unless or until the corresponding
mount point in the virtual file system is covered by a file
system mounted there.
.LP
.I virtual
is the mount point for the virtual file system.
.I dir
is the pathname of the existing file system.
.I flags
is either 0 or
.BR \s-1M_RDONLY\s0 .
The
.SB M_RDONLY
flag forces all accesses in the new name space to be read-only;
without it, accesses are the same as for the
underlying file system.  All other
.BR mount (2V)
flags are preserved from the underlying file systems.
.LP
A loopback mount of
.RB ` / '
onto
.B /tmp/newroot
allows the entire file system hierarchy to appear as if it
were duplicated under
.BR /tmp/newroot ,
including any file systems mounted from remote
.SM NFS
servers.
All files would then be accessible
either from a pathname relative to
.RB ` / ',
or from a pathname relative to
.B /tmp/newroot
until such time as a file system is mounted in
.BR /tmp/newroot ,
or any of its subdirectories.
.LP
Loopback mounts of
.RB ` / '
can be performed in conjunction with the
.BR chroot (2)
system call, to provide a complete virtual file system to a process
or family of processes.
.LP
Recursive traversal of loopback mount points is not allowed;
after the loopback mount of
.BR /tmp/newroot ,
the file
.B /tmp/newroot/tmp/newroot
does not contain yet another file system hierarchy;
rather, it appears just as
.B /tmp/newroot
did before the loopback mount was performed (say,
as an empty directory).
.LP
The standard
.SM RC
files perform first
.B 4.2
mounts, then
.B nfs
mounts, during booting.
On Sun386i systems,
.B lo
(loopback) mounts are performed just after
.B 4.2
mounts.
.B /etc/fstab
files depending on alternate mount orders at
boot time will
fail to work as expected.  Manual
modification of
.B /etc/rc.local
will be needed to make such
mount orders work.
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
Loopback mounts must be used with care;
the potential for confusing users and applications
is enormous.
A loopback mount entry in
.BR /etc/fstab
must be placed after the mount points of both
directories it depends on.  This is most easily accomplished by 
making the loopback mount entry the last in 
.BR /etc/fstab ,
though see
.BR mount (8)
for further warnings.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chroot (2),
.BR mount (2V),
.BR fstab (5),
.BR mount (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Because only directories can be mounted or mounted on,
the structure of a virtual file system can only
be modified at directories.
