'\" t
.\" @(#)mcp.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH MCP 4S "17 April 1991"
.SH NAME
mcp, alm \- Sun MCP Multiprotocol Communications Processor/ALM-2 Asynchronous Line Multiplexer
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-3, SUN-3x, SUN-4, SPARCsystem 600MP SERIES"
.SS MCP
.nf
.ft B
device mcp0 at vme32d32 ? csr 0x1000000 flags 0x1ffff priority 4 vector mcpintr 0x8b
device mcp1 at vme32d32 ? csr 0x1010000 flags 0x1ffff priority 4 vector mcpintr 0x8a
device mcp2 at vme32d32 ? csr 0x1020000 flags 0x1ffff priority 4 vector mcpintr 0x89
device mcp3 at vme32d32 ? csr 0x1030000 flags 0x1ffff priority 4 vector mcpintr 0x88
device mcp4 at vme32d32 ? csr 0x2000000 flags 0x1ffff priority 4 vector mcpintr 0xa0
device mcp5 at vme32d32 ? csr 0x2010000 flags 0x1ffff priority 4 vector mcpintr 0xa1
device mcp6 at vme32d32 ? csr 0x2020000 flags 0x1ffff priority 4 vector mcpintr 0xa2
device mcp7 at vme32d32 ? csr 0x2030000 flags 0x1ffff priority 4 vector mcpintr 0xa3
.fi
.ft R
.SS ALM-2
.B pseudo-device mcpa128
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <fcntl.h>
#include <sys/termios.h>
open("/dev/tty\fIxy\fB", mode);
open("/dev/ttyd\fIn\fB", mode);
open("/dev/cua\fIn\fB", mode);
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION (MCP)
.IX  "mcp device"  ""  "\fLmcp\fP \(em Sun MCP Multiprotocol Communications Processor"
.LP
The Sun
.SM MCP
(Multiprotocol Communications Processor)
supports up to four synchronous serial lines in conjunction
with SunLink\(tm Multiple Communication Protocol products.
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION (ALM-2)
.IX  "terminal multiplexer"  ""  "\fLalm\fP \(em Sun ALM-2 Asynchronous Line Multiplexer"
.LP
The Sun \s-1ALM\s0-2 Asynchronous Line Multiplexer
provides 16 asynchronous serial communication
lines with modem control and one Centronics-compatible parallel
printer port.
.LP
Each port supports those
.BR termio (4)
device control functions specified by flags in the
.B c_cflag
word of the
.B termios
structure and by the
.BR \s-1IGNBRK\*S ,
.BR \s-1IGNPAR\*S ,
.BR \s-1PARMRK\*S ,
or
.SB INPCK
flags in the
.B c_iflag
word of the
.B termios
structure are performed by the
.B mcp
driver.  All other
.BR termio (4)
functions must be performed by
.SM STREAMS
modules pushed atop the driver; when a device is opened, the
.BR ldterm (4M)
and
.BR ttcompat (4M)
.SM STREAMS
modules are automatically pushed on top of the stream, providing the
standard
.BR termio (4)
interface.
.LP
Bit
.I i
of
.B flags
may be specified to say that a line is not properly
connected, and that the line
.I i
should be treated as hard-wired with carrier
always present.  Thus, specifying
.B "flags 0x0004"
in the specification of
.B mcp0
would treat line
.B /dev/ttyh2
in this way.
.LP
Minor device numbers in the range 0 \- 127 correspond directly to the
normal tty lines and are named
.BI /dev/tty XY\fR,
where
.I X
represents the physical board
as one of the characters
.BR h ,
.BR i ,
.BR j ,
.BR k ,
.BR l ,
.BR m ,
.BR n ,
or
.BR o ,
and
.I Y
is the line number on the board as a single hexadecimal digit.
Thus the first line on the first board is
.BR /dev/ttyh0 ,
and the sixteenth line on the third board is
.BR /dev/ttyjf .
.LP
To allow a single tty line to be connected to a modem and used for
both incoming and outgoing calls, a special feature, controlled by
the minor device number, has been added.
Minor device numbers in the range 128 \- 255 correspond to the same physical
lines as those above (that is,
the same line as the minor device number minus 128).
.LP
A dial-in line has a minor device in the range 0 \- 127 and
is conventionally renamed
.BI /dev/ttyd n\fR,
where
.I n
is a number indicating which dial-in line it is (so that
.B /dev/ttyd0
is the first dial-in line), and the dial-out line corresponding to that dial-in
line has a minor device number 128 greater than the minor device number of the
dial-in line and is conventionally named
.BI /dev/cua n\fR,
where
.I n
is the number of the dial-in line.
.LP
The
.BI /dev/cua n
lines are special in that they can be opened even when
there is no carrier on the line.
Once a
.BI /dev/cua n
line is opened, the corresponding tty line cannot be
opened until the
.BI /dev/cua n
line is closed; a blocking open will wait until the
.BI /dev/cua n
line is closed (which will drop Data Terminal Ready, after which Carrier Detect
will usually drop as well) and carrier is detected again, and a non-blocking
open will return an error.
Also, if the
.BI /dev/ttyd n
line has been opened successfully (usually only
when carrier is recognized on the modem) the corresponding
.BI /dev/cua n
line cannot be opened.
This allows a modem to be attached, for example, to
.B /dev/ttyd0
(renamed from
.BR /dev/ttyh0 )
and used for dialin (by enabling the line for
login in
.BR /etc/ttytab )
and also used for dialout (by
.BR tip (1C)
or
.BR uucp (1C))
as
.B /dev/cua0
when no one is logged in on
the line.
Note: the bit in the
.B flags
word in the configuration file (see above) must be zero
for this line,
which enables hardware carrier detection.
.SS IOCTLS
The standard set of
.B termio
.B ioctl(\|)
calls are supported by the
.SM ALM-2\*S.
.LP
If the
.SB CRTSCTS
flag in the
.B c_cflag
is set, output will be generated only if
.SM CTS
is high; if
.SM CTS
is low,
output will be frozen.   If the
.SB CRTSCTS
flag is clear, the state of
.SM CTS
has no effect.
Breaks can be generated by the
.BR \s-1TCSBRK\s0 ,
.BR \s-1TIOCSBRK\s0 ,
and
.SB TIOCCBRK
.B ioctl(\|)
calls.
The modem control lines
.BR \s-1TIOCM_CAR\s0 ,
.BR \s-1TIOCM_CTS\s0 ,
.BR \s-1TIOCM_RTS\s0 ,
and
.SB TIOCM_DTR
are provided.
.LP
The input and output line speeds may be set to any of the speeds
supported by
.BR termio .
The speeds cannot be set independently; when the output speed is set,
the input speed is set to the same speed.
.IX  "terminal multiplexer"  "\fLalm\fP \(em Sun ALM-2 Asynchronous Line Multiplexer"
.br
.ne 7
.SS ERRORS
An
.B open(\|)
on a
.BR /dev/tty *
or a
.BR /dev/cu *
device will fail if:
.TP 15
ENXIO
The unit being opened does not exist.
.TP 15
EBUSY
The dial-out device is being opened and the dial-in device is already open, or
the dial-in device is being opened with a no-delay open and the dial-out device
is already open.
.TP 15
EBUSY
The unit has been marked as exclusive-use by another process with a
.SB TIOCEXCL
.B ioctl(\|)
call.
.TP 15
EINTR
The open was interrupted by the delivery of a signal.
.SH DESCRIPTION (PARALLEL PORT)
.LP
The parallel port is Centronics-compatible
and is suitable for most common parallel printers.
Devices attached to this interface are
normally handled by the line printer spooling
system, and should not be accessed directly by the user.
.LP
The printer devices reside on a separate major device number
from the serial devices.
Minor device numbers in the range 0 \- 7 access the printer,
and the recommended naming is
.BR /dev/mcpp[0-7] .
.SS IOCTLS
Various control flags and status bits may be fetched and set on an
.SM MCP
printer port.  The following flags and status bits are supported;
they are defined in
.BR sundev/mcpcmd.h :
.LP
.TS
expand;
l l l.
\s-1MCPRIGNSLCT\s0	0x02	set if interface ignoring \s-1SLCT\s0\- on open
\s-1MCPRDIAG\s0	0x04	set if printer port is in self-test mode
\s-1MCPRVMEINT\s0	0x08	set if \s-1VME\s0 bus interrupts enabled
\s-1MCPRINTPE\s0	0x10	print message when out of paper
\s-1MCPRINTSLCT\s0	0x20	print message when printer offline
\s-1MCPRPE\s0	0x40	set if device ready, cleared if device out of paper
\s-1MCPRSLCT\s0	0x80	set if device online (Centronics \s-1SLCT\s0 asserted)
.TE
.LP
The flags
.SM
.B MCPRINTSLCT\*S,
.SM
.B MCPRINTPE\*S,
and
.SB MCPRDIAG
may be changed; the other bits are status bits and may not be changed.
.LP
The
.B ioctl(\|)
calls supported by
.SM MCP
printer ports are listed below.
.TP 15
.SM MCPIOGPR
The argument is a pointer to an
.BR "unsigned char" .
The printer flags and status bits are stored in the
.B "unsigned char"
pointed to by the argument.
.TP 15
.SM MCPIOSPR
The argument is a pointer to an
.BR "unsigned char" .
The printer flags are set from the
.B "unsigned char"
pointed to by the argument.
.SS ERRORS
Normally, the interface only reports the
status of the device when attempting an
.BR open (2V)
call.
An
.B open(\|)
on a
.BR /dev/mcpp *
device will fail if:
.TP 15
ENXIO
The unit being opened does not exist.
.TP 15
EIO
The device is offline or out of paper.
.LP
Bit 17 of the configuration
.B flags
may be specified to say that the interface should ignore Centronics
.SM SLCT\-
and
.SM RDY/PE\-
when attempting to open the device, but
this is normally useful only for configuration and troubleshooting:
if the
.SM SLCT\-
and
.SM RDY
lines are not asserted during an actual data
transfer (as with a
.BR write (2V)
call), no data is transferred.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/mcpp[0-7]
parallel printer port
.TP
.B /dev/tty[h-o][0-9a-f]
hardwired tty lines
.TP
.B /dev/ttyd[0-9a-f]
dialin tty lines
.TP
.B /dev/cua[0-9a-f]
dialout tty lines
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tip (1C),
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR mti (4S),
.BR termio (4),
.BR ldterm (4M),
.BR ttcompat (4M),
.BR zs (4S)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Most of these diagnostics ``should never happen''; their occurrence
usually indicates problems elsewhere in the system as well.
.TP
.BI mcpa n ": silo overflow."
More than
.I n
characters
.RI ( n
very large) have been received by the
.B mcp
hardware without being read by the software.
.TP
.BI "***port " n " supports \s-1RS\s0449 interface***"
Probably an incorrect jumper configuration.  Consult the hardware manual.
.TP
.BI "mcp port " n " receive buffer error"
The
.B mcp
encountered an error concerning the synchronous receive buffer.
.TP
.PD 0
.BI "Printer on mcpp" n " is out of paper"
.TP
.BI "Printer on mcpp" n " paper ok"
.TP
.BI "Printer on mcpp" n " is offline"
.TP
.BI "Printer on mcpp" n " online"
Assorted printer diagnostics, if enabled as discussed above.
.PD
.SH BUGS
.LP
Note: pin 4 is used for hardware flow control on
\s-1ALM\s0\-2
ports 0 through 3.
These two pins should
.I not
be tied together on the
.SM ALM
end.
