.\" @(#)mem.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH MEM 4S "19 March 1991"
.SH NAME
mem, kmem, zero, vme16d16, vme24d16, vme32d16, vme16d32, vme24d32, vme32d32, eeprom, atbus, sbus \- main memory and bus I/O space
.SH CONFIG
None; included with standard system.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "mem device"  ""  "\fLmem\fP \(em main memory space"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "kmem device"  ""  "\fLkmem\fP \(em kernel memory space"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "vme16 device"  ""  "\fLvme16\fP \(em VMEbus 16-bit space"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "vme24 device"  ""  "\fLvme24\fP \(em VMEbus 24-bit space"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "vme16d16 device"  ""  "\fLvme16d16\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "vme24d16 device"  ""  "\fLvme24d16\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "vme32d16 device"  ""  "\fLvme32d16\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "vme16d32 device"  ""  "\fLvme16d32\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "vme24d32 device"  ""  "\fLvme24d32\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "vme32d32 device"  ""  "\fLvme32d32\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "sbus device"  ""  "\fLsbus\fP \(em Sbus address space"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "virtual device"  ""  "\fLvirtual\fP \(em virtual address space"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "memory images"  "mem device"  ""  "\fLmem\fP \(em main memory space"  PAGE START
.IX  "memory images"  "kmem device"  ""  "\fLkmem\fP \(em kernel memory space"  PAGE START
.IX  "memory images"  "vme16 device"  ""  "\fLvme16\fP \(em VMEbus 16-bit space"  PAGE START
.IX  "memory images"  "vme24 device"  ""  "\fLvme24\fP \(em VMEbus 24-bit space"  PAGE START
.IX  "memory images"  "vme16d16 device"  ""  "\fLvme16d16\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  PAGE START
.IX  "memory images"  "vme24d16 device"  ""  "\fLvme24d16\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  PAGE START
.IX  "memory images"  "vme32d16 device"  ""  "\fLvme32d16\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  PAGE START
.IX  "memory images"  "vme16d32 device"  ""  "\fLvme16d32\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  PAGE START
.IX  "memory images"  "vme24d32 device"  ""  "\fLvme24d32\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  PAGE START
.IX  "memory images"  "vme32d32 device"  ""  "\fLvme32d32\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  PAGE START
.IX  "memory images"  "sbus device"  ""  "\fLsbus\fP \(em Sbus address space"  PAGE START
.IX  "memory images"  "virtual device"  ""  "\fLvirtual\fP \(em virtual address space"  PAGE START
.LP
These devices are special files that map memory and bus I/O space.
They may be read, written, seeked, and (except for
.BR kmem )
memory-mapped.
See
.BR read (2V),
.BR write (2V),
.BR mmap (2),
and
.BR directory (3V).
.SS "All Systems"
.LP
.B mem
is a special file that is an image of the physical memory of the computer.
It may be used, for example, to examine (and even to patch) the system.
.LP
.B kmem
is a special file that is an image of the kernel virtual memory of the system.
.LP
.B zero
is a special file which is a source of private zero pages.
.LP
.B eeprom
is a special file that is an image of the
.SM EEPROM
or
.SM NVRAM\s0.
.SS "Sun-3 and Sun-4 Systems VMEbus"
.B vme16d16
(also known as
.BR vme16 )
is a special file that is an image of
.SM VME\s0bus
16-bit addresses with 16-bit data.
.B vme16
address space extends from 0 to 64K.
.LP
.B vme24d16
(also known as
.BR vme24 )
is a special file that is an image of
.SM VME\s0bus
24-bit addresses with 16-bit data.
.B vme24
address space extends from 0 to 16 megabytes.  The
.SM VME
16-bit address space
overlaps the top 64K of the 24-bit address space.
.LP
.B vme32d16
is a special file that is an image of
.SM VME\s0bus
32-bit addresses with 16-bit data.
.LP
.B vme16d32
is a special file that is an image of
.SM VME\s0bus
16-bit addresses with 32-bit data.
.LP
.B vme24d32
is a special file that is an image of
.SM VME\s0bus
24-bit addresses with 32-bit data.
.LP
.B vme32d32
(also known as
.BR vme32 )
is a special file that is an image of
.SM VME\s0bus
32-bit addresses with 32-bit data.
.B vme32
address space extends from 0 to 4 gigabytes.  The
.SM VME
24-bit address space
overlaps the top 16 megabytes of the 32-bit address space.
.SS "Desktop SPARCsystems"
The 
.B sbus
is represented by a series of entries each of which is an image
of a single 
.B sbus 
slot.
The entries are named 
.BI sbus n\fR,
where 
.I n
is the slot number
in hexadecimal.
The number of 
.B sbus 
slots and the address range within each slot may vary
between implementations.
.SS "SPARCsystem 600MP Series"
\s-1SPARC\s0system 600MP series systems have both
.B sbus
and
.SM VME\s0bus
as described above.
.SS "Sun386i Systems"
.LP
.B atbus
is a special file that is an image of the
.SM AT
bus space.
It extends from 0 to 16 megabytes.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/mem
.TP
.B /dev/kmem
.TP
.B /dev/zero
.TP
.B /dev/vme16d16
.TP
.B /dev/vme16
.TP
.B /dev/vme24d16
.TP
.B /dev/vme24
.TP
.B /dev/vme32d16
.TP
.B /dev/vme16d32
.TP
.B /dev/vme24d32
.TP
.B /dev/vme32d32
.TP
.B /dev/vme32
.TP
.B /dev/eeprom
.TP
.B /dev/atbus
.TP
.B /dev/sbus[0-3]
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mmap (2),
.BR read (2V),
.BR write (2V),
.BR directory (3V)
.IX  "mem device"  ""  "\fLmem\fP \(em main memory space"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "kmem device"  ""  "\fLkmem\fP \(em kernel memory space"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "vme16 device"  ""  "\fLvme16\fP \(em VMEbus 16-bit space"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "vme24 device"  ""  "\fLvme24\fP \(em VMEbus 24-bit space"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "vme16d16 device"  ""  "\fLvme16d16\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "vme24d16 device"  ""  "\fLvme24d16\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "vme32d16 device"  ""  "\fLvme32d16\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "vme16d32 device"  ""  "\fLvme16d32\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "vme24d32 device"  ""  "\fLvme24d32\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "vme32d32 device"  ""  "\fLvme32d32\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "sbus device"  ""  "\fLsbus\fP \(em Sbus address space"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "virtual device"  ""  "\fLvirtual\fP \(em virtual address space"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "memory images"  "mem device"  ""  "\fLmem\fP \(em main memory space"  PAGE END
.IX  "memory images"  "kmem device"  ""  "\fLkmem\fP \(em kernel memory space"  PAGE END
.IX  "memory images"  "vme16 device"  ""  "\fLvme16\fP \(em VMEbus 16-bit space"  PAGE END
.IX  "memory images"  "vme24 device"  ""  "\fLvme24\fP \(em VMEbus 24-bit space"  PAGE END
.IX  "memory images"  "vme16d16 device"  ""  "\fLvme16d16\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  PAGE END
.IX  "memory images"  "vme24d16 device"  ""  "\fLvme24d16\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  PAGE END
.IX  "memory images"  "vme32d16 device"  ""  "\fLvme32d16\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  PAGE END
.IX  "memory images"  "vme16d32 device"  ""  "\fLvme16d32\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  PAGE END
.IX  "memory images"  "vme24d32 device"  ""  "\fLvme24d32\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  PAGE END
.IX  "memory images"  "vme32d32 device"  ""  "\fLvme32d32\fP \(em VMEbus address space"  PAGE END
.IX  "memory images"  "sbus device"  ""  "\fLsbus\fP \(em Sbus address space"  PAGE END
.IX  "memory images"  "virtual device"  ""  "\fLvirtual\fP \(em virtual address space"  PAGE END
