.\" @(#)pcfs.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new for 4.1
.TH PCFS 4S "9 May 1990"
.SH NAME
PCFS \- MS-DOS formatted filesystem
.SH CONFIG
.B options \s-1PCFS\s0
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun-3/80, and Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems with
internal floppy drives.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "PCFS" "" "\fLPCFS\fP \(em MS-DOS filesystem"
.IX "MS-DOS filesystem" "" "MS-DOS filesystem \fLPCFS\fR"
.LP
.SM PCFS
is a filesystem type that allows users direct access to files on
.SM MS-DOS
formatted disks from within the SunOS operating system.
Once mounted, a
.SM PCFS
filesystem provides standard SunOS file operations and semantics.
That is, users can create, delete, read, write files on an
.SM MS-DOS
formatted disk.
They can also create/delete directories and list files in a directory.
.LP
.SM PCFS 
filesystems are mounted either with the command:
.IP
.B "mount \-t pcfs " \fIdevice-special\fP \fIdirectory-name\fP
.LP
or
.IP
.B "mount /pcfs"
.LP
if the following line
.IP
.B "/dev/fd0	/pcfs	pcfs rw,noauto 0 0"
.LP
is in your
.B /etc/fstab.
.LP
File and directories created through
.SM PCFS
have to comply with the
.SM MS-DOS
file name convention, which is of the form
\fIfilename\fP[.\fIext\fP], where 
.I filename
consists of one through eight
upper-case characters, while the optional 
.I ext
consists of one through
three upper-case characters.
.SM PCFS
converts all the lower-case characters in a file name to upper-case, and
chops off any extra characters in 
.I filename
or 
.IR ext .
When displaying file names,
.SM PCFS
only shows them in lower-case.
.LP
One can use either the
.SM MS-DOS
.SB FORMAT
command, or
.IP
.B fdformat \-d
.LP
command in the SunOS system to format a diskette in
.SM MS-DOS
format.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
If you copy a file
.IP
.B financial.data
.LP
from a
.SM UNIX
filesystem to a
.SM PCFS
filesystem, it will show up as
.IP
.SB FINANCIA.DAT
.LP
on the
.SM MS-DOS
disk.
.LP
The following file names
.IP
.B .login
.IP
.B test.sh.orig
.IP
.B data+
.LP
are considered illegal in
.SM MS-DOS\s0,
therefore can not be created through
.BR \s-1PCFS\s0 .
.SH NOTES
.LP
The following are all the legal characters that are allowed in file
names or extentions in
.SM PCFS\s0:
.IP
.B 0-9, a-z, A-Z, and $#&@!%()-{}<>`_\e^~|'
.LP
Since
.B SunOS
and
.B DOS
operating systems
use different character sets, and have different requirements for the text
file format, one can use
.IP
.B dos2unix
.LP
or
.IP
.B unix2dos
.LP
command to convert files between them.
.LP
.SM PCFS
offers a convenient transportation vehicle for files between Sun Workstations
and
.SM PC\s0's.
Since the
.SM MS-DOS
disk format was designed for use under
.SM DOS\s0,
it is quite inefficient to operate under the SunOS system.
Therefore, it should not be used
as the format for a regular local storage.
You should use
.B ufs
for local storage within the SunOS system.
.BR
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/etc/mount_pcfs
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
.BR dos (1),
.BR dos2unix (1),
.BR eject (1),
.BR fd (4),
.BR fdformat(1),
.BR unix2dos (1),
.BR fstab (5),
.BR mount (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.BR mount (8)
will fail and produce the following message:
.TP
.B "mount_pcfs: /dev/fd0 on /pcfs type pcfs: Invalid argument"
if the floppy in the
.B fd0
drive is not in
.SM MS-DOS
format. 
For example,
if you try to mount a
.B ufs
formatted floppy as a
.SM PCFS
filesystem.
.TP
.B "mount_pcfs: /dev/fd0 on /pcfs type pcfs: No such device"
if configuration option
.B options PCFS
is missing from the kernel.
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
It is not recommended to physically eject an
.SM MS-DOS
floppy while
the device is still mounted as a
.SM PCFS
filesystem.
.LP
Since
.SM PCFS
truncates any extra characters in file names and extentions like
.SM MS-DOS\s0,
be careful when copying files from a
.SM UNIX
filesystem to a
.SM PCFS
filesystem.
For instance, the following two files
.IP
.B test.data1 test.data2
.LP
in a
.SM UNIX
filesystem will get copied to the same file
.IP
.SB TEST.DAT
.LP
in
.SM PCFS\s0.
.SH BUGS
.LP
.SM PCFS
should handle the disk change condition like
.SM MS-DOS\s0,
so that the user does not need to unmount the filesystem to change floppies.
.SM PCFS
is currently not
.SM NFS
mountable. Trying to mount a
.SM PCFS
filesystem through
.SM NFS
will fail with an
.SM EACCES
error.
