.\" @(#)routing.4n 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH ROUTING 4N "9 October 1987"
.SH NAME
routing \- system supporting for local network packet routing
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "routing device"  ""  "\fLrouting\fR \(em local network packet routing"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "packet routing device"  ""  "packet routing device \(em \fLrouting\fR"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "network packet routing device"  ""  "network packet routing device \(em \fLrouting\fR"  ""  PAGE START
.LP
The network facilities provided general packet routing,
leaving routing table maintenance to applications processes.
.LP
A simple set of data structures comprise a ``routing table''
used in selecting the appropriate network interface when
transmitting packets.  This table contains a single entry for
each route to a specific network or host.  A user process,
the routing daemon, maintains this data base with the aid
of two socket specific
.BR ioctl (2)
.IX  "ioctls for sockets"  "SIOCADDRT"  "\fLioctl\fR's for sockets"  "\fLSIOCADDRT\fR \(em add route"
.IX  "SIOCADDRT add route"  ""  "\fLSIOCADDRT\fR \(em add route"
.IX  "add route ioctl"  ""  "add route \fLioctl\fR \(em \fLSIOCADDRT\fR"
.IX  "routing ioctls"  "SIOCADDRT"  "routing \fLioctl\fR's"  "\fLSIOCADDRT\fR \(em add route"
.IX  "packet routing ioctls"  "SIOCADDRT"  "packet routing \fLioctl\fR's"  "\fLSIOCADDRT\fR \(em add route"
.IX  "ioctls for sockets"  "SIOCDELRT"  "\fLioctl\fR's for sockets"  "\fLSIOCDELRT\fR \(em delete route"
.IX  "SIOCDELRT delete route"  ""  "\fLSIOCDELRT\fR \(em delete route"
.IX  "delete route ioctl"  ""  "delete route \fLioctl\fR \(em \fLSIOCDELRT\fR"
.IX  "routing ioctls"  "SIOCDELRT"  "routing \fLioctl\fR's"  "\fLSIOCDELRT\fR \(em delete route"
.IX  "packet routing ioctls"  "SIOCDELRT"  "packet routing \fLioctl\fR's"  "\fLSIOCDELRT\fR \(em delete route"
commands,
.SB SIOCADDRT
and
.BR \s-1SIOCDELRT\s0 .
The commands allow
the addition and deletion of a single routing
table entry, respectively.  Routing table manipulations may
only be carried out by super-user.
.LP
A routing table entry has the following form, as defined
in
.BR <net/route.h> :
.RS
.nf
.ft B
struct rtentry {
	u_long	rt_hash;
	struct	sockaddr rt_dst;
	struct	sockaddr rt_gateway;
	short	rt_flags;
	short	rt_refcnt;
	u_long	rt_use;
	struct	ifnet *rt_ifp;
};
.ft R
.fi
.RE
with
.I rt_flags
defined from:
.RS
.nf
.ft B
.\"._d
#define	\s-1RTF_UP\s0		0x1		/* route usable */
#define	\s-1RTF_GATEWAY\s0	0x2		/* destination is a gateway */
#define	\s-1RTF_HOST\s0	0x4		/* host entry (net otherwise) */
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
Routing table entries come in three flavors: for a specific
host, for all hosts on a specific network, for any destination
not matched by entries of the first two types (a wildcard route).
When the system
is booted, each network interface autoconfigured
installs a routing table entry when it wishes to have packets
sent through it.  Normally the interface specifies the route
through it is a ``direct'' connection to the destination host
or network.  If the route is direct, the transport layer of
a protocol family usually requests the packet be sent to the
same host specified in the packet.  Otherwise, the interface
may be requested to address the packet to an entity different
from the eventual recipient (that is, the packet is forwarded).
.LP
Routing table entries installed by a user process may not specify
the hash, reference count, use, or interface fields; these are filled
in by the routing routines.  If
a route is in use when it is deleted
.RI ( rt_refcnt
is non-zero),
the resources associated with it will not
be reclaimed until all references to it are removed.
.LP
The routing code returns
.SM EEXIST
if requested to duplicate an existing entry,
.SM ESRCH
if requested to delete a non-existent entry, or
.SM ENOBUFS
if insufficient resources were available
to install a new route.
.LP
User processes read the routing tables through the
.B /dev/kmem
device.
.LP
The
.I rt_use
field contains the number of packets sent along the route.
This value is used to select among multiple
routes to the same destination.  When multiple routes to
the same destination exist, the least used route is selected.
.LP
A wildcard routing entry is specified with a zero
destination address value.  Wildcard routes are used
only when the system fails to find a route to the
destination host and network.  The combination of wildcard
routes and routing redirects can provide an economical
mechanism for routing traffic.
.IX  "routing device"  ""  "\fLrouting\fR \(em local network packet routing"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "packet routing device"  ""  "packet routing device \(em \fLrouting\fR"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "network packet routing device"  ""  "network packet routing device \(em \fLrouting\fR"  ""  PAGE END
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/kmem
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR route (8C),
.BR routed (8C)
