.\" @(#)sd.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SD 4S "20 March 1991"
.SH NAME
sd \- driver for SCSI disk devices
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-3, SUN-3x, and SUN-4 SYSTEMS"
.ft B
.nf
controller si0 at vme24d16 ? csr 0x200000 priority 2 vector siintr 0x40
controller si0 at obio ? csr 0x140000 priority 2
disk sd0 at si0 drive 0 flags 0
disk sd1 at si0 drive 1 flags 0
disk sd2 at si0 drive 8 flags 0
disk sd3 at si0 drive 9 flags 0
disk sd4 at si0 drive 16 flags 0
disk sd6 at si0 drive 24 flags 0

controller sc0 at vme24d16 ? csr 0x200000 priority 2 vector scintr 0x40
disk sd0 at sc0 drive 0 flags 0
disk sd1 at sc0 drive 1 flags 0
disk sd2 at sc0 drive 8 flags 0
disk sd3 at sc0 drive 9 flags 0
disk sd4 at sc0 drive 16 flags 0
disk sd6 at sc0 drive 24 flags 0
.ft R
.fi
.LP
The first two
.B controller
lines above specify the first and second 
.SM SCSI
host adapters for
Sun-3, Sun-3x, and Sun-4
.SM VME
systems.  The third
.B controller
line specifies the first and only
.SM SCSI
host adapter on Sun-3/50 and Sun-3/60 systems.
.LP
The four lines following the
.B controller
specification lines define the available 
.B disk
devices,
.BR sd0 " \- " sd6 .
.LP
The
.B flags
field is used to specify the
.SM SCSI
device type to the host adapter.
.B flags
must be set to 0 to identify
.B disk
devices.
.LP
The
.B drive
value is calculated using the formula:
.RS
.RI 8\|*\| target\ \|+\|\ lun
.RE
where
.I target
is the
.SM SCSI
target, and
.I lun
is the
.SM SCSI
logical unit number.
.LP
The next configuration block, following
.B si0
and
.B si1
above, describes
the configuration for the older
.B sc0
host adapter.  It uses the
same configuration description as the
.B si0
host adapter.
.SH "CONFIG \(em SPARCsystem 330 and SUN-3/80 SYSTEMS"
.ft B
.nf
controller sm0 at obio ? csr 0xfa000000 priority 2
disk sd0 at sm0 drive 0 flags 0
disk sd1 at sm0 drive 1 flags 0
disk sd2 at sm0 drive 8 flags 0
disk sd3 at sm0 drive 9 flags 0
disk sd4 at sm0 drive 16 flags 0
disk sd6 at sm0 drive 24 flags 0
.ft R
.fi
.LP
The 
\s-1SPARC\s0system 330 and Sun-3/80 use an on-board
.SM SCSI
host adapter,
.BR sm0 .
It follows the same rules as described
above for the 
Sun-3, Sun-3x, and Sun-4
section.
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-4/110 SYSTEM"
.ft B
.nf
controller sw0 at obio 2 csr 0xa000000 priority 2
disk sd0 at sw0 drive 0 flags 0
disk sd1 at sw0 drive 1 flags 0
disk sd2 at sw0 drive 8 flags 0
disk sd3 at sw0 drive 9 flags 0
disk sd4 at sw0 drive 16 flags 0
disk sd6 at sw0 drive 24 flags 0
.ft R
.fi
.LP
The Sun-4/110 uses an on-board
.SM SCSI
host adapter,
.BR sw0 .
It follows the same rules as described
above for the 
Sun-3, Sun-3x, and Sun-4
section.
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-3/E SYSTEM"
.ft B
.nf
controller se0 at vme24d16 ? csr 0x300000 priority 2 vector se_intr 0x40
disk sd0 at se0 drive 0 flags 0
disk sd1 at se0 drive 1 flags 0
disk sd2 at se0 drive 8 flags 0
disk sd3 at se0 drive 9 flags 0
.ft R
.fi
.LP
The Sun-3/E uses a
.SM VME\s0-based
.SM SCSI
host adapter,
.BR se0 .
It follows the same rules as described
above for the
Sun-3, Sun-3x, and Sun-4
section.
.LP
.\" Sun386i start
.SH "CONFIG \(em Sun386i"
.nf
.ft B
controller wds0 at obmem ? csr 0xFB000000 dmachan 7 irq 16 priority 2
disk sd0 at wds0 drive 0 flags 0
disk sd1 at wds0 drive 8 flags 0
disk sd2 at wds0 drive 16 flags 0
.fi
.ft R
.LP
The Sun386i configuration follows the same rules described
above for the 
Sun-3, Sun-3x, and Sun-4
section.
.SH "CONFIG \(em Desktop SPARCsystems"
.nf
.ft B
device-driver esp
scsibus0 at esp
disk sd0 at scsibus0 target 3 lun 0
disk sd1 at scsibus0 target 1 lun 0
disk sd2 at scsibus0 target 2 lun 0
disk sd3 at scsibus0 target 0 lun 0
.fi
.ft R
.LP
The
Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0system
configuration files specify a device
driver
.RB ( esp ),
and a
.SM SCSI
bus attached to that device driver,
and then disks on that
.SM SCSI
bus at the
.SM SCSI
Target and Logical Unit
addresses specified.
.SH "CONFIG \(em SPARCsystem 600MP SERIES"
.nf
.ft B
device-driver esp
scsibus0 at esp
disk sd0 at scsibus0 target 3 lun 0
disk sd1 at scsibus0 target 1 lun 0
disk sd2 at scsibus0 target 2 lun 0
disk sd3 at scsibus0 target 0 lun 0
disk sd16 at scsibus0 target 5 lun 0

scsibus1 at esp
disk sd4 at scsibus1 target 3 lun 0
disk sd5 at scsibus1 target 1 lun 0
disk sd6 at scsibus1 target 2 lun 0
disk sd7 at scsibus1 target 0 lun 0

scsibus2 at esp
disk sd8 at scsibus2 target 3 lun 0
disk sd9 at scsibus2 target 1 lun 0
disk sd10 at scsibus2 target 2 lun 0
disk sd11 at scsibus2 target 0 lun 0

scsibus3 at esp
disk sd12 at scsibus3 target 3 lun 0
disk sd13 at scsibus3 target 1 lun 0
disk sd14 at scsibus3 target 2 lun 0
disk sd15 at scsibus3 target 0 lun 0

scsibus4 at esp
disk sd16 at scsibus4 target 3 lun 0
disk sd17 at scsibus4 target 1 lun 0
disk sd18 at scsibus4 target 2 lun 0
disk sd19 at scsibus4 target 0 lun 0
.fi
.ft R
.LP
\s-1SPARC\s0system 600MP series configuration files specify a device
driver
.RB ( esp ),
.SM SCSI
buses attached to that device driver,
and then disks on those
.SM SCSI
buses at the
.SM SCSI
Target and Logical Unit
addresses specified.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "sd driver" "" "\fLsd\fP \(em driver for \s-1SCSI\s+1 disk devices" ""
.IX driver  "driver for SCSI disk devices" "driver" "driver for \s-1SCSI\s+1 disk devices"
.IX SCSI "driver for SCSI disk devices" "\s-1SCSI\s+1" "driver for \s-1SCSI\s+1 disk devices"
.LP
Files with minor device numbers 0 through 7 refer to various portions
of drive 0.
The standard device names begin with 
\*(lq\fBsd\fP\*(rq 
followed by the drive number and then a letter a-h for
partitions 0-7 respectively.
The character
.B ?
stands here for a drive number in the range 0-20.
.LP
The block-files access the disk using the system's normal
buffering mechanism and are read and written without regard to
physical disk records.  There is also a \*(lqraw\*(rq interface
that provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call usually results in one I/O operation;
raw I/O is therefore considerably more efficient when
many bytes are transmitted.  The names of the raw files conventionally
begin with an extra
.RB ` r ".'"
.LP
I/O requests (such as 
.B lseek (2V))
to the
.SM SCSI
disk must have an offset that is a multiple of 512 bytes
(\s-1DEV_BSIZE\s0), or the driver returns an 
.SM EINVAL
error.  If the transfer length is not a multiple of 512 bytes,
the transfer count is rounded up by the driver.
.SS "Disk Support"
.LP
This driver handles the Adaptec 
.SM ACB\s0-4000 
disk controller for
.SM ST\s0-506
drives, the Emulex 
.SM MD\s021 
disk controller for
.SM ESDI
drives, and embedded,  
.SM CCS\s0-compatible
.SM SCSI
disk drives.
.LP
On Sun386i and Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems, this driver
supports the 
.SM CDC 
Wren
.SM III
half-height,
and Wren
.SM IV
full-height
.SM SCSI
disk drives.
The \s-1SPARC\s0system 600MP series also supports the Seagate Elite
.SM SCSI
drive.
.LP
The type of disk drive is determined using the
.SM SCSI
inquiry command and reading the volume label stored
on block 0 of the drive.
The volume label describes the disk geometry and partitioning; it must
be present or the disk cannot be mounted by the system.
.LP
The
.B sd?a 
partition is normally used for the root file system
on a disk, the
.B sd?b
partition as a paging area (e.g. swap),
and the
.B sd?c
partition for pack-pack copying.
.B sd?c
normally maps the entire disk and may also be used
as the mount point for
secondary disks in the system.  The rest of the disk is normally the
.B sd?g
partition.  For the primary disk, the user file system is located here.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/sd[0-20][a-h]
block files
.TP
.B /dev/rsd[0-20][a-h]
raw files
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dkio (4S),
.BR directory (3V),
.BR lseek (2V),
.BR read (2V),
.BR write (2V)
.LP
Product Specification for Wren IV
.SM SCSI
Model 94171
.br
Product Specification for Wren III
.SM SCSI
Model 94161
.br
Product Specification for Wren III
.SM SCSI
Model 94211
.br
Emulex
.SM MD\s021
Disk Controller Programmer Reference Manual
.br
Adaptec 
.SM ACB\s0-4000
Disk Controller
.SM OEM
Manual
.br
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.nf
.ft B
.nf
sd?:  sdtimer: I/O request timeout
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
A tape I/O operation has taken too long to complete.
A device or host adapter failure may have occurred.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.nf
sd?:  sdtimer: can't abort request
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
The driver is unable to find the request in the disconnect queue
to notify the device driver that it has failed.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.nf
sd?:  no space for inquiry data
sd?:  no space for disk label
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
The driver was unable to get enough space for temporary
storage.  The driver is unable to open the disk device.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.nf
sd?:  <%s>
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
The driver has found a
.SM SCSI
disk device and opened it
for the first time.  The disk label is displayed to 
notify the user.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.nf
sd?:  \s-1SCSI\s+1 bus failure
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
A host adapter error was detected.  The system may need to be rebooted.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.nf
sd?:  single sector I/O failed
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
The driver attempted to recover from a transfer by
writing each sector, one at a time, and failed.
The disk needs to be reformatted to map out
the new defect causing this error.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.nf
sd?:  retry failed
sd?:  rezero failed
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
A disk operation failed.  The driver first tries to recover
by retrying the command; if that fails, the driver rezeros
the heads to cylinder 0 and repeats the retries.
A failure of either the retry or rezero operations
results in these warning messages; the error recovery
operation continues until the retry count is exhausted.
At that time a hard error is posted.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.nf
sd?:  request sense failed
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
The driver was attempting to determine the cause of an
I/O failure and was unable to get more information.
This implies that the disk device may have failed.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.nf
sd?:  warning, abs. block %d has failed %d times
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
The driver is warning the user that the specified block has failed
repeatedly.   
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.nf
sd?:  block %d needs mapping
sd?:  reassigning defective abs. block %d
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
The specified block has failed repeatedly and may soon
become an unrecoverable failure.  If the driver does not
map out the specified block automatically, it is recommended
that the user correct the problem.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.nf
sd?:  reassign block failed
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
The driver attempted to map out a block having excessive soft
errors and failed.  The user needs to run format and
repair the disk.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.nf
sd?%c: cmd how blk %d (rel. blk %d)
       sense key(0x%x): %s, error code(0x%x): %s
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
An I/O operation
.RB ( cmd ),
encountered an error condition at absolute block
.RB ( "blk %d" ),
partition
.RB ( sd?%c: ),
or relative block
.RB ( "rel. block%d" ).
The error recovery operation
.RB ( how )
indicates whether it
.IR retry 'ed, 
.IR restored ,
or 
.IR failed .
The
.B sense key
and
.B error code
of the error are displayed for diagnostic purposes.
The absolute
.B blk
of the error is used for mapping out the defective
block.  The 
.B rel. blk
is the block (sector) in error, relative to the beginning of
the partition involved.  This is useful for using
.BR icheck (8)
to repair a damaged file structure on the disk.
.SS "Additional SPARCsystem Diagnostics"
.LP
The diagnostics for desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems and the
\s-1SPARC\s0system 600MP series are much like those above.
The following diagnostics are unique to
these systems:
.sp
.ft B
.nf
sd?:  SCSI transport failed: reason 'xxxx': {retrying|giving up}
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
The host adapter has failed to transport a command to the target for
the reason stated. The driver will either retry the command or, ultimately,
give up.
.LP
.ft B
.nf
sd?:  disk not responding to selection
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
The target disk isn't responding. You may have accidently kicked a power
cord loose.
.LP
.ft B
.nf
sd?:  disk ok
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
The target disk is now responding again.
.LP
.ft B
.nf
sd?:  disk offline
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
The driver has decided that the target disk is no longer there.
.LP
.SH BUGS
These disk drivers assume that you don't have removable media drives, and
also that in order to operate normally, a valid Sun disk label must be
in sector zero.
.sp
A logical block size of 512 bytes is assumed
(and enforced on desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems).
