.\" @(#)sr.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; by Edward Un 
.TH SR 4S "19 March 1991"
.SH NAME
sr \- driver for CDROM SCSI controller
.SH CONFIG \(em Desktop SPARCsystems
.LP
.nf
.ft B
disk      sr0 at scsibus0 target 6 lun 0
.ft R
.fi
.SH CONFIG \(em SPARCsystem 600MP SERIES
.LP
.nf
.ft B
disk      sr0 at scsibus0 target 6 lun 0
disk      sr1 at scsibus0 target 5 lun 0
disk      sr2 at scsibus0 target 1 lun 0
disk      sr3 at scsibus0 target 0 lun 0
disk      sr4 at scsibus1 target 6 lun 0
disk      sr5 at scsibus3 target 6 lun 0
.ft R
.fi
.SH CONFIG \(em SUN-4/330 SYSTEMS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
disk      sr0 at sm0 drive 060 flags 2
.ft R
.fi
.SH CONFIG \(em SUN-4 SYSTEMS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
.\" SCSI-2 host w/ 2 disks and 1 1/4" tape on each disk
disk      sr0 at sc0 drive 060 flags 2
.\" SCSI-3 host adapter
disk      sr0 at si0 drive 060 flags 2
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "sr" "" "\fLsr\fP \(em driver for CDROM SCSI controller" ""
.LP
.SB CDROM 
is a removable read-only direct-access device connected to the
system's
.SM SCSI
bus. 
.SB CDROM
drives are designed to work with any disc that meets the Sony-Philips
\*(lqred-book\*(rq or \*(lqyellow-book\*(rq documents.
They can read 
.SB CDROM 
data
discs, digital audio discs (Audio
.SM CD\s0's)
or combined-mode discs (that is,
some tracks are audio, some tracks are data).
A 
.SB CDROM 
disc is single-sided containing approximately
540 megabytes of data or 74 minutes of audio.
.LP
The first
.SB CDROM 
drive controller in a system is set up as 
.SM SCSI
target 6, with logical unit number 0.
Addressing for additional controllers, when supported, is given above.
For the first
.SB CDROM 
drive in a system, device names are
.B /dev/sr0
for block device and
.B /dev/rsr0
for character device.  Additional drives, when supported,
are designated
.B /dev/sr1
for block device and
.B /dev/rsr1
for character device, and so forth. 
.LP
The device driver supports 
.BR open (2V),
.BR read (2V),
.BR close (2V)
function calls through its block device and character device interface.
In addition,
it supports ioctl function calls through the character device interface.
When the device is first opened, the 
.SB CDROM
drive's eject button will be disabled (which prevents the manual removal
of the disc) until the last
.BR close (2V)
is called.
.SS "CDROM Drive Support"
This driver supports the 
.SM SONY CDU\s0-8012
.SB CDROM 
drive controller and other
.SB CDROM 
drives which have the same 
.SM SCSI
command set as the 
.SM SONY CDU\s0-8012.
The type of 
.SB CDROM 
drive is determined using the 
.SM SCSI
inquiry command.
.LP
There is no volume label stored on the 
.BR \s-1CDROM\s0 .
The disc geometry and paritioning information is always the same.
The minor device number is always 0. 
If the 
.SB CDROM
is in 
.SM ISO
9660 or
.B High Sierra Disk
format, it can be mounted as a file system.
.SH FILES
.PD 0 
.TP 20
.B /dev/sr[0-5]
block files
.TP
.B /dev/rsr[0-5]
raw files
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cdromio (4S),
.BR fstab (5),
.BR mount (8)
