.\" @(#)st.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH ST 4S "26 June 1991"
.SH NAME
st \- driver for SCSI tape devices
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-3, SUN-3/400, SUN-4, SPARCsystem 400 SERIES"
.ft B
.nf
controller si0 at vme24d16 ? csr 0x200000 priority 2 vector siintr 0x40
controller si1 at vme24d16 ? csr 0x204000 priority 2 vector siintr 0x41
controller si0 at obio ? csr 0x140000 priority 2
tape st0 at si0 drive 040 flags 1
tape st1 at si0 drive 050 flags 1
tape st2 at si0 drive 030 flags 1
tape st3 at si0 drive 020 flags 1
tape st4 at si1 drive 040 flags 1
tape st5 at si1 drive 050 flags 1
tape st6 at si1 drive 030 flags 1
tape st7 at si1 drive 020 flags 1

controller sc0 at vme24d16 ? csr 0x200000 priority 2 vector scintr 0x40
tape st0 at sc0 drive 040 flags 1
tape st1 at sc0 drive 050 flags 1
.ft R
.fi
.LP
The first two
.B controller
lines above specify the first and second 
.SM SCSI
host adapters for Sun-3, Sun-3/400, Sun-4,
and \s-1SPARC\s0system 400
.SM VME
systems.  The third
.B controller
line specifies the first and only
.SM SCSI
host adapter on Sun-3/50 and Sun-3/60 systems.
.LP
Following the
.B controller
specification lines are eight lines which define the available 
.B tape
devices,
.BR st0 \- st7 .
The first four
.B tape
devices,
.BR st0 \- st3
are on the first
.BR controller ,
.BR si0 .
The next four 
.B tape
devices,
.BR st4 \- st7
are on the second
.BR controller ,
.BR si1 .
For small configurations, only the first controller,
.BR si0 ,
is used.  For larger configurations, a second controller,
.BR si1 ,
is added.
.LP
The
.B flags
field is used to specify the
.SM SCSI
device type to the host adapter.  The
.B flags
field must be set to 1 to identify
.B tape
devices.
.LP
The
.B drive
value is calculated using the formula:
.SM SCSI
bus, to select a specific target and logical unit number.
The value to enter in the
.B drive
field of the configuration line is calculated using the formula:
.LP
.RS
.RI 8\|*\| target\ \|+\|\ lun
.RE
.LP
where
.I target
is the
.SM SCSI
target, and
.I lun
is the
.SM SCSI
logical unit number.
Note the drive number is displayed in octal and not decimal as was
done in earlier releases.
For boot proms, this unit number must be specified in hex rather than decimal;
for example, 
.B st4 
is unit 20, not 32 (decimal) or 040 (octal).
.LP
The next configuration block, following
.B si0
and
.B si1
above, describes
the older
.B sc0
host adapter configuration.
It follows the
same configuration description as the
.B si0
host adapter.
.SH "CONFIG \(em SPARCsystem 300 SERIES"
.ft B
.nf
controller sm0 at obio ? csr 0x66000000 priority 2
controller si1 at vme24d16 ? csr 0x204000 priority 2 vector siintr 0x41
tape st0 at sm0 drive 040 flags 1
tape st1 at sm0 drive 050 flags 1
tape st2 at sm0 drive 030 flags 1
tape st3 at sm0 drive 020 flags 1
tape st4 at si1 drive 040 flags 1
tape st5 at si1 drive 050 flags 1
tape st6 at si1 drive 030 flags 1
tape st7 at si1 drive 020 flags 1
.ft R
.fi
.LP
For small configurations, only the on-board controller,
.BR sm0 ,
is used.  For larger configurations, a second controller,
.BR si1 ,
is added.
This configuration follows the same rules described above in 
the first
.SM CONFIG
section.
.SH "CONFIG \(em Desktop SPARCsystems"
.ft B
.nf
scsibus0 at esp
scsibus1 at esp
tape st0 at scsibus0 target 4 lun 0
tape st1 at scsibus0 target 5 lun 0
tape st2 at scsibus1 target 4 lun 0
tape st3 at scsibus1 target 5 lun 0
.ft R
.fi
.LP
The desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems configuration files specify a device driver,
.BR esp ,
and the
.SM SCSI
buses attached to that device driver.
The first and second tape devices
.RB ( st0
and
.BR st1 )
are attached on
.BR scsibus0 ,
and the second and third tape devices
.RB ( st2
and
.BR st3 )
are attached on
.BR scsibus1 .
These devices are attached at the
Target and Logical Unit addresses specified.
.SH "CONFIG \(em SPARCsystem 600MP SERIES"
.ft B
.nf
scsibus0 at esp
tape st0 at scsibus0 target 4 lun 0
tape st1 at scsibus0 target 5 lun 0
tape st2 at scsibus0 target 1 lun 0
tape st3 at scsibus0 target 0 lun 0

scsibus1 at esp
tape st4 at scsibus1 target 4 lun 0
tape st5 at scsibus1 target 5 lun 0

scsibus2 at esp

scsibus3 at esp
tape st6 at scsibus3 target 4 lun 0
tape st7 at scsibus3 target 5 lun 0

scsibus4 at esp
.ft R
.fi
.LP
Like the desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems, the \s-1SPARC\s0system 600MP
series configuration files specify a device driver,
.BR esp ,
and the
.SM SCSI
buses attached to that device driver.
The first through fourth tape devices
(\fBst0\fP, \fBst1\fP, \fBst2\fP, and \fBst3\fP)
are attached on
.BR scsibus0 ,
the fifth and sixth tape devices
(\fBst4\fP and \fBst5\fP)
are attached on
.BR scsibus1 ,
and the seventh and eighth tape devices
(\fBst6\fP and \fBst7\fP)
are attached on
.BR scsibus3 .
These devices are attached at the
Target and Logical Unit addresses specified.
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN\-3/80 SYSTEMS"
.ft B
.nf
controller sm0 at obio ? csr 0x66000000 priority 2
tape st0 at sm0 drive 040 flags 1
tape st1 at sm0 drive 050 flags 1
tape st3 at sm0 drive 030 flags 1
tape st4 at sm0 drive 020 flags 1
.ft R
.fi
.LP
Sun-3/80 systems use an on-board 
.SM SCSI
host adapter,
.BR sm0 ,
which follows the same rules described above
in the first
.SM CONFIG
section.
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN\-4/110 SYSTEMS"
.ft B
.nf
controller sw0 at obio 2 csr 0xa000000 priority 2
tape st0 at sw0 drive 040 flags 1
tape st1 at sw0 drive 050 flags 1
.ft R
.fi
.LP
The Sun-4/110 uses an on-board
.SM SCSI
host adapter,
.BR sw0 ,
which follows the rules described
above in the first
.SM CONFIG
section.
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN\-3/E SYSTEMS"
.ft B
.nf
controller se0 at vme24d16 ? csr 0x300000 priority 2 vector se_intr 0x40
tape st0 at se0 drive 040 flags 1
tape st1 at se0 drive 050 flags 1
.ft R
.fi
.LP
The Sun-3/E uses a \s-1VME\s0-based
.SM SCSI
host adapter,
.BR se0 ,
which follows the rules described above for
the first
.SM CONFIG
section.
.br
.ne 4
.SH CONFIG \(em Sun386i SYSTEMS
.ft B
.nf
controller wds0 at obmem ? csr 0xFB000000 dmachan 7 irq 16 priority 2
tape st0 at wds0 drive 32 flags 1
.ft R
.fi
.LP
The Sun386\fIi\fP configuration follows the rules described
above in the first
.SM CONFIG
section.
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "st driver" "" "\fLst\fP \(em driver for \s-1SCSI\s0 tape devices"
.IX "driver" "SCSI tape devices" "driver" "\s-1SCSI\s0 tape devices"
.IX SCSI "driver for SCSI tape devices" "\s-1SCSI\s+1" "driver for \s-1SCSI\s0 tape devices"
.LP
The
.B st
device driver is an interface to various
.SM SCSI
tape devices.
Supported 1/4\*(rq cartridge devices include
the Archive Viper
.SM QIC\s0\-150
streaming tape drive, the Emulex
.SM MT\s0\-02
tape controller,
and the Sysgen
.SM SC\s04000
tape controller
(except on desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems and \s-1SPARC\s0system 600MP
series machines).
Supported 1/2\*(rq and 8mm devices include
the
.SM HP\s0\-88780
1/2\*(rq tape drive
and
the Exabyte EXB-8200/8500 8mm cartridge tape subsystem.
.B st
provides a standard interface to these various devices; see 
.BR mtio (4)
for details.
.LP
The driver can be opened with either rewind on close
.RB ( /dev/rst* )
or no rewind on close
.RB ( /dev/nrst* )
options. 
A maximum of four tape formats per device are supported
(see
.SM FILES
below).
The tape format is specified using the device name.
The four rewind on close formats for
.BR st0 ,
for example, are
.BR /dev/rst0 ,
.BR /dev/rst8 ,
.BR /dev/rst16 ,
and
.BR /dev/rst24 .
.br
.ne 5
.SS Read Operation
.LP
If the driver is opened for reading in a different format than the
tape is written in,
the driver overrides
the user selected format.
For example, if a 1/4\*(rq cartridge tape
is written in
.SM QIC\s0-24
format and opened for reading in
.SM QIC\s0\-11,
the driver will detect a read failure on the first read and
automatically switch to
.SM QIC\s0\-24
to recover the data.
.br
.ne 5
.LP
Note: if the
.B /dev/*st[0\-7]
format is used, no indication is given that the driver has
overridden the user selected format.
Other formats issue a warning message 
to inform the user of an overridden format selection.
Some devices automatically perform
this function and do not require driver support
(1/2\*(rq reel and
.SM QIC\s0\-150
tape drives, for example).  
.SS Write Operation
.LP
Writing from the beginning of tape is performed
in the user-specified format.
The original tape format is used for appending onto
previously written tapes.
A warning message is
issued if the driver has to override the user-specified
format.
.SS EOT Handling
.LP
The Emulex and Sysgen drives have only a physical end of tape (\s-1PEOT\s0);
thus it is not possible to write past \s-1EOT\s0.
All other drives have a logical end of tape (\s-1LEOT\s0) before
.SM PEOT
to guarantee flushing the data onto the tape.
The amount of storage between 
.SM LEOT 
and 
.SM PEOT
varies from less than a megabyte to about 20 megabytes depending on the tape
drive.  Further writing, except for trailer records, is inhibited to
prevent running off the end of the reel.
.LP
If
.SM EOT
is encountered while writing an Emulex or Sysgen tape,
no error is reported but the number of bytes
transferred is zero and no further writing is allowed.
On all other drives, the current transfer is completed,
returning the number of bytes written.
The next write will return zero,
at which time it is possible to write trailer records
after first writing an \s-1EOF\s0.
.LP
The Desktop SPARCsystems tape driver differs in EOT handling and
supports writing trailer records without first writing an \s-1EOF\s0. 
The first write that encounters EOT will return a short count or zero.
If a short count is returned, then the next write will return zero. 
After a zero count is returned, the next write returns a full count or
short count. A following write will return zero again.
.LP
It is important that the number and size of trailer records be kept as
small as possible to prevent data loss.  For this reason,
this practice is not recommended.
.LP
Reading past logical
.SM EOT 
is transparent to the user.  Reading is only stopped by reading \s-1EOF\s0's.
For 1/2\*(rq reel devices, it is possible to read off the end of the reel
if you read past the two file marks which mark the end of recorded media.
All other devices have safeguards to eliminate this problem. 
.SS Ioctls
.LP
The behavior of
.SM SCSI
tape positioning ioctls
is the same across all devices which support them.
However, not all devices support all ioctls.
The driver returns an 
.SM ENOTTY 
error on unsupported ioctls.
.LP
The retension ioctl only applies to 1/4\*(rq cartridge tape devices.
It is used to restore tape tension, thus improving the tape's soft error rate
after extensive start-stop operations
or long-term storage.
.LP
Note: the error status is reset by the 
.SB MTIOCGET 
get status ioctl call or
the next read, write, or other ioctl operation.
If no error has occurred (sense key is zero), the current
file and record position is returned.
.SH ERRORS 
.TP 12
.SM EACCES
The driver is opened for write access and the tape is
write protected.  For writing with
.SM QIC\s0\-150 
tape drives, this error is also reported if the wrong tape media
is used for writing.
.TP
.SM EBUSY
The tape driver is in use by another process.  Only one process
can use the tape drive at a time.  The driver will allow  a
grace period of two minutes for the other process to finish before
reporting this error.
.TP
.SM EINVAL
The number of bytes read or written is not a multiple
of the physical record size (fixed-length tape
devices only).
.TP
.SM EIO\ \ 
During opening, the tape device is not ready because either
no tape is in the drive, or the drive is not on-line.  Once open,
this error is returned if the requested I/O
transfer could not be completed.
.TP
.SM ENOTTY
This indicates that the tape device does not support the
requested ioctl function.
.TP
.SM ENXIO
During opening, the tape device does not exist.
.br
.ne 4
.TP
.SM EPERM
Another system has reserved the tape drive for its use.  The tape
drive cannot be used until the other system releases it.
.br
.ne 7
.SH FILES
.LP 
For 1/2\*(rq reel tape devices (\s-1HP\s0-88780):
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/rst[0\-7]\ \ 	
800 \s-1BPI\s0 density
.TP
.B /dev/rst[8\-15]\ 	
1600 \s-1BPI\s0 density
.TP
.B /dev/rst[16\-23]	
6250 \s-1BPI\s0 density
.TP
.B /dev/rst[24\-31]	
data compression
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[0\-7] 	
non\-rewinding 800 \s-1BPI\s0 density
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[8\-15]	
non\-rewinding 1600 \s-1BPI\s0 density
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[16\-23]	
non\-rewinding 6250 density
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[24\-31]	
non\-rewinding data compression
.sp .5
.LP
For helical-scan tape devices (Exabyte): 
.TP 20
.B /dev/rst[0\-7]\    	
Standard EXB-8200 (2GB) Format
.TP
.B /dev/rst[8\-15] 	
EXB-8500 (5GB) Format
.TP
.B /dev/rst[16\-23]	
Compressed Format (EXB-8500 only)
.TP
.B /dev/rst[24\-31]	
Compressed Format (EXB-8500 only)
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[0\-7] 	
non-rewinding Standard  EXB-8200 (2GB)Format
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[8\-15]	
non-rewinding EXB-8500 (5GB) Format
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[16\-23]	
non-rewinding Compressed Format (EXB-8500 only)
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[24\-31]	
non-rewinding Compressed Format (EXB-8500 only)
.sp .5
.LP
For \s-1QIC\s0\-150 tape devices (Archive Viper):
.TP 20
.B /dev/rst[0\-7]\    	
\s-1QIC\s0\-150 Format
.TP
.B /dev/rst[8\-15] 	
\s-1QIC\s0\-150 Format
.TP
.B /dev/rst[16\-23]	
\s-1QIC\s0\-150 Format
.TP
.B /dev/rst[24\-31]	
\s-1QIC\s0\-150 Format
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[0\-7] 	
non-rewinding \s-1QIC\s0\-150 Format
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[8\-15]	
non-rewinding \s-1QIC\s0\-150 Format
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[16\-23]	
non-rewinding \s-1QIC\s0\-150 Format
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[24\-31]	
non-rewinding \s-1QIC\s0\-150 Format
.sp .2
.LP
Note: The drive will automatically read both \s-1QIC\s0\-11 and
\s-1QIC\s0\-24 formats too.
.sp .5
.LP
For \s-1QIC\s0\-24 tape devices (Emulex \s-1MT\s0\-02 and Sysgen \s-1SC\s04000):
.TP 20
.B /dev/rst[0\-7]\    	
\s-1QIC\s0\-11 Format
.TP
.B /dev/rst[8\-15] 	
\s-1QIC\s0\-24 Format
.TP
.B /dev/rst[16\-23]	
\s-1QIC\s0\-24 Format
.TP
.B /dev/rst[24\-31]	
\s-1QIC\s0\-24 Format
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[0\-7] 	
non-rewinding \s-1QIC\s0\-11 Format
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[8\-15]	
non-rewinding \s-1QIC\s0\-24 Format
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[16\-23]	
non-rewinding \s-1QIC\s0\-24 Format
.TP
.B /dev/nrst[24\-31]	
non-rewinding \s-1QIC\s0\-24 Format
.sp .2
.LP
Note:  
.SM QIC\s0\-24
is the preferred format for all systems except Sun-2's.
For Sun-2 systems, 
.SM QIC\s0\-11 is preferred.
.sp 1
.LP
Note:  Only four tape devices were supported in SunOS4.1.  Thus only
the first four device names above can be used if you are running this
release.  Releases following 4.1 PSR A (inclusive) support all device
names.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cpio (1),
.BR mt (1), 
.BR tar (1), 
.BR mtio (4), 
.BR dump (8), 
.BR restore (8) 
.br
.ne 6
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
st?:  \s-1I/O\s0 request timeout
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
A tape I/O
operation has taken too long to complete.  A
device or host adapter failure may have occurred.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
st?:  warning, unknown tape drive found
.ft R
.fi
.in +5m
The driver does not recognize the tape device.  Only the
default tape density is used; block size
is set to the value specified by the tape drive.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
st?:  write protected
.ft R
.fi
.in +5m
The tape is write protected.
.LP
.sp .5
.nf
.ft B
st?:  wrong tape media for writing, use \s-1DC\s06150 tape (or equivalent)
.ft R
.fi
.in +5m
For
.SM QIC\s0\-150
tape drives, this indicates that the user is trying to write on a
.SM DC\s0\-300XL
(or equivalent) tape.  Only
.SM DC\s0\-6150
(or equivalent) tapes can be used for writing.
.br
Note: \s-1DC\s0\-6150 was formerly known as \s-1DC\s0\-600\s-1XTD\s+1.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
st?:  warning, rewinding tape
.ft R
.fi
.in +5m
The driver is rewinding tape in order to set the tape format.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
st?:  warning, using alternate tape format
.ft R
.fi
.in +5m
The driver is overriding the user-selected tape format and using
the previously used format.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
st?:  warning, tape rewound
.ft R
.fi
.in +5m
For Sysgen tape controllers, the tape may be rewound as a result
of getting sense data.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
st?:  format change failed
.ft R
.fi
.in +5m
The specified tape density or format is not supported by the tape
drive.  This is detected by the tape drive rejecting the mode select
command to change the tape density/format.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
st?:  warning, The tape may be wearing out or the head may need cleaning.
.ft R
.fi
.in +5m
The number of allowable records re-read or re-written
(e.g. soft errors) has exceeded the specified limit for
the tape media.  This indicates the tape media is 
wearing out.  No data loss has occurred on the tape yet.  This
message is an early warning that continued usage will result
in unrecoverable errors.  Continued usage of this
tape is not recommended.
.LP
.in +5m
This error message can also be issued if the tape heads
are dirty.  Tape oxide buildup on the head interferes with
reading and writing data.  If the head has not been
cleaned recently, it should be cleaned and the tape retested
to determine the source of this error.
.LP
.in +5m
If this error message is persistent over different known
good tapes, this is indicative of a tape drive hardware
problem.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
st?:  read retries= count (rate %), file= %d, block= %d
st?:  write  retries= count (rate %), file= %d, block= %d
.ft R
.fi
.in +5m
These messages display the measured soft error rate of
the tape at the time the driver is closed.  The
.BR count
indicates the number of soft errors.  The number of
soft errors as a percentage of total blocks transferred is
.BR rate .
The
.BR rate
should remain relatively constant across the tape.  Sudden
jumps indicate worn spots on the tape.  The retry
.BR count
is reset every time the tape is rewound.
.LP
.in +5m
Ballpark upper limits for read retries is 3%.  For write retries,
the upper limit is 10%.  The exact specifications depend on
the tape device in use.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
st?:  <cmd> failed
st? error:  sense key(0x%x): %s error, code(0x%x): %s
.ft R
.fi
.in +5m
An error has occurred.  The first line identifies the command
name,
.BR <cmd> .
The second line reports the sense key error code and message
string.  In addition, the error code and message string may
be reported depending on whether this extension is supported
by the tape drive.  This information is intended for diagnostic
purposes.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
st?:  stread: not modulo %d block size
st?:  stwrite: not modulo %d block size
.ft R
.fi
.in +5m
The read or write request size must be a multiple of the
.B %d
physical block size.  Typically, this means a read or write
of less than 512 bytes was requested.  Note:  the block size can
vary with the tape drive in use.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
st?:  file positioning error
st?:  block positioning error
.ft R
.fi
.in +5m
The driver was unable to position the tape to the desired file or block
(record).  This is probably caused by a damaged tape.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
st?:  tape synchronization lost
.ft R
.fi
.in +5m
The user hit 
.SM CTRL\-C 
while a tape operation was in progress, causing the tape position
to be lost.  The tape will be rewound on the next open to
resynchronize.  Note:  other signals may also have a similar
effect.
.LP
.nf
.ft B
st?:  no iopb space for buffer
.ft R
.fi
.in +5m
The driver could not allocate space for its internal
working buffer because the kernel is out of resources;
too many devices were configured into the system.
.LP
.SS Additional SPARCsystem Diagnostics
.LP
The diagnostics for desktop \s-1SPARC\s0systems and the
< \s-1SPARC\s0system 600 series are much like those described above.
The following diagnostics are unique to
these systems:
.sp
.ft B
.nf
st?:  SCSI transport failed: reason 'xxxx': {retrying|giving up}
.fi
.ft R
.in +5m
The host adapter has failed to transport a command to the target for
the reason stated. The driver will either retry the command or, ultimately,
give up.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Foreign tape devices which do not return a
.SM BUSY
status during tape
loading prevent user commands from being held
until the device is ready.  The user must delay
issuing any tape operations until the tape device is 
ready.  This is not a problem for Sun-supplied tape
devices.
.LP
Foreign tape devices which do not report a blank check
error at the end of recorded media cause
file positioning operations to fail.
Some tape drives, for example, mistakenly report media error
instead of blank check error. 
.LP
Systems using the older
.B sc0
host adapter or the
Sysgen
.SM SC\s04000
tape controller prevent disk I/O
over the 
.SM SCSI
bus while the tape is in use (during a rewind, for example).
This problem is caused by the fact that they do not
support disconnect/reconnect to free the
.SM SCSI
bus.  Newer tape devices, like the Emulex
.SM MT\s0\-02,
and host adapters, like
.BR si0 ,
eliminate this problem.
.LP
Some older Sysgen drives support only the
.SM QIC\s0\-11
format.  This can be determined using
.BR mt (1).
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
The Sysgen 
.SM SC\s04000 
tape controller is being obsoleted.
