.\" @(#)tfs.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH TFS 4S "23 November 1988"
.SH NAME
tfs, TFS \- translucent file service
.SH CONFIG
.IB options TFS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <sys/mount.h>
mount("tfs", dir, \s-1M_NEWTYPE\s0|flags, nfsargs);
.fi
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "tfs translucent" "" "\fLtfs\fP \(em translucent file service" ""
.IX "TFS translucent" "" "\fLtfs\fP \(em translucent file service" ""
.IX "translucent file service"
.LP
The translucent file service
(\s-1TFS\s0)
supplies a copy-on-write filesystem
allowing users to share file hierarchies while providing each user
with a private hierarchy into which files are copied as they are modified.
Consequently, users are isolated from each other's changes.
.LP
.I nfsargs
specifies
.SM NFS
style
.BR mount (2V)
arguments, including the address
of the file server (the
.BR tfsd (8))
and the file handle to be mounted.
.I dir
is the directory on which the
.SM TFS
filesystem is to be mounted.
.LP
.SM TFS
allows a user to
mount a private, writable filesystem in front of any number of public,
read-only filesystems in such a way that the contents of the public
filesystems remain visible behind the contents of the private filesystem.
Any change made to a file that
is being shared from a public filesystem will cause that file to be copied
into the private filesystem, where the modification will be performed.
.LP
A directory in a 
.SM TFS
filesystem consists of a number
of stacked directories.
The searchpath
.SM TFS
uses to look up
a file in a directory corresponds to the stacking order: the 
.SM TFS
will search the
\*(lqfrontmost\*(rq directory first, then the directory behind it, and
so on until the first occurrence of the file is found.
Modifications to a file can be made only in the frontmost directory.
.SM TFS
copies a file to the frontmost directory
when the file is opened for writing with
.BR open (2V)
or when its
.BR stat (2V)
attributes are changed.
.LP
If a user removes a file which is not in the frontmost
directory,
.SM TFS
creates a
.I whiteout
entry in the frontmost
directory and leaves the file intact in the back directory.
This whiteout entry makes it appear that the file no longer exists,
although the file can be reinstated in the directory by using the
.BR unwhiteout (1)
command to remove the whiteout entry.
The
.BR lsw (1)
command lists whiteout entries.
.LP
.SM TFS
filesystems are served by the
.BR tfsd (8).
A 
.SM TFS
filesystem is mounted on a directory by making a
.SB TFS_MOUNT
protocol request of the
.BR tfsd ,
specifying the directories that are to be stacked.
The
.B tfsd
responds with a file handle,
which the client then supplies to the
.BR mount (2V)
system call, along with
the address of the
.BR tfsd .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lsw (1),
.BR unwhiteout (1),
.BR mount (2V),
.BR tfsd (8),
.BR mount_tfs (8)
