.\" @(#)vx.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI/VPG;
.TH VX 4S "22 April 1991"
.SH NAME
vx \- Sun Visualization Accelerator and Multiprocessor Visualization
Accelerator
.SH "CONFIG \- SUN-4 SYSTEMS"
.ft B
.nf
device vx0 at vme32d32 3 csr 0x30000000 priority 4 
					    vector vxintr 0xaa cgvxintr 0xab
device vx0 at vme32d32 4 csr 0x30000000 priority 4
					    vector vxintr 0xaa cgvxintr 0xab
.ft R
.fi
.sp
The first line should be used to generate a kernel for
Sun-4/370 and Sun-4/330 systems.
The second line should be used to generate a kernel for Sun-4/470
systems.
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
.SM VX/MVX
can only be used in Sun-4
.SM VME\s0-bus
packages with 3 or more full size (9U) slots.
An MVX can only be used in combination with a VX.
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "vx device" "" "\fLvx\fP device"
.LP
The 
.B vx
interface supports the optional
.SM VX/MVX
Visualization Accelerator.
The VX and MVX are visualization accelerators that provide high-speed
computing power for such techniques as image processing, volume rendering,
3-D interactive graphics, and high quality rendering.
Each of the devices, the VX and the MVX, is a full size (9U) VME board.
.LP
The
.B VX
is a single-board accelerator with a high-performance processing node,
4Mbytes of program/data memory, and an additional 16 Mbytes of image/data
memory.
It contains two frame buffers;
a low-end graphics accelerator designed to enhance vector and polygon
drawing performance,
and a full color frame buffer accelerated by the processing node.
.LP
The low-end graphics accelerator is nearly identical to the
.B cgsix
or 
.B GX
device.
It has a 2 MByte 8-bit color frame buffer and provides
the standard frame buffer interface as defined in
.BR fbio (4S).
As with the
.B cgsix,
this part of the
.B VX
has registers and memory that may be mapped with
.BR mmap (2),
using the offsets defined in
.BR <sundev/vxreg.h> .
.LP
The full color frame buffer is 16 MBytes of 32-bit image memory.
See the
.I "VX/MVX Programming with the Graphics and Visualization Library"
for detailed information on accessing the full color frame buffer and
the processing node.
.LP
The
.B MVX
is a multiprocessor accelerator with four parallel processing nodes.
Each node is identical to the processing node on the
.BR VX
board and each has 4 Mbytes of program/data memory.
.LP
Programs can be downloaded for execution on the 
.SM VX/MVX
directly, they can be executed by the host processor, or
the host processor and the
.SM VX/MVX
engine can be used in combination.
See the
.I "VX/MVX Programming with the C Developer's Kit"
for detailed information on accessing the
.SM VX/MVX
from the host.  This manual also describes the C compiler,
the programming tools, and the support libraries for the
.SM VX/MVX.
.\".SH FILES
.\".PD 0
.\".TP
.\".B /dev/vx0
.\".TP
.\".B /usr/include/vx1
.\".TP
.\".B /usr/lib/vx1
.\".PD
.SH SEE ALSO 
.BR mmap(2),
.BR fbio(4S),
.BR cgsix(4)
.LP
.I "Software Installation for the VX and MVX Visualization Accelerators"
.LP
.I "Hardware Installation for the VX and MVX Visualization Accelerators"
.LP
.I "VX/MVX Programming with the C Developer's Kit"
.LP
.I "VX/MVX Programming with the Graphics and Visualization Library"
