.\" @(#)win.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH WIN 4S "9 October 1987"
.SH NAME
win \- Sun window system
.SH CONFIG
.nf
.B "pseudo-device win\fInumber\fP"
.B "pseudo-device dtop\fInumber\fP"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "win device"  ""  "\fLwin\fP \(em Sun window system"  ""  PAGE START
.LP
The
.B win
pseudo-device accesses the system drivers supporting the Sun window system.
.IR number ,
in the device description line above, indicates
the
maximum number of windows supported by the system.
.I number
is set
to 128 in the
.SM GENERIC
system configuration file used to generate the
kernel used in Sun systems as they are shipped.
The
.I dtop
pseudo-device line indicates the number of
separate ``desktops'' (frame buffers) that can be
actively running the Sun window system at once.
In the
.SM GENERIC
file, this number is set to 4.
.LP
Each window in the system is represented by a
.B /dev/win*
device.
The windows are organized as a tree with windows being subwindows of
their parents, and covering/covered by their siblings.  Each window
has a position in the tree, a position on a display screen,
an input queue, and information telling what parts of it are exposed.
.LP
The window driver multiplexes keyboard and mouse input among the
several windows, tracks the mouse with a cursor on the screen,
provides each window access to information about what parts of it are exposed,
and notifies the manager process for a window
when the exposed area of the window changes so that the window may
repair its display.
.LP
Full information on the window system functions is given in the
.TX SVSPG .
.IX  "win device"  ""  "\fLwin\fP \(em Sun window system"  ""  PAGE END
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/win[0-9]
.TP
.B /dev/win[0-9][0-9]
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO
.TX SVSPG
