.\" @(#)xt.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH XT 4S "19 December 1989"
.SH NAME
xt \- Xylogics 472 1/2 inch tape controller
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-3, SUN-4 SYSTEMS"
.ft B
.nf
controller xtc0 at vme16d16 ? csr 0xee60 priority 3 vector xtintr 0x64
controller xtc1 at vme16d16 ? csr 0xee68 priority 3 vector xtintr 0x65
tape xt0 at xtc0 drive 0 flags 1
tape xt1 at xtc1 drive 0 flags 1
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "xt device"  ""  "\fLxt\fP \(em Xylogics 472 1/2-inch tape drive"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "Xylogics 472 1/2-inch tape drive"  ""  "Xylogics 472 1/2-inch tape drive \(em \fLxt\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "tape drive, 1/2-inch"  xt  ""  "\fLxt\fP \(em Xylogics 472"  PAGE START
.IX  "1/2-inch tape drive"  xt  ""  "\fLxt\fP \(em Xylogics 472"  PAGE START
.IX  "472 1/2-inch tape drive"  ""  "472 1/2-inch tape drive \(em \fLxt\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.LP
The Xylogics 472 tape controller controls Pertec-interface
1/2\*(rq tape drives such as the
Fujitsu M2444 and the
.SM CDC
Keystone III, providing a standard
tape interface to the device see
.BR mtio (4).
This controller is used to support high speed or
high density drives, which are not supported effectively by the older
Tapemaster controller (see
.BR tm (4S)).
.LP
The flags field is used to control remote density select operation:
a 0 specifies no remote density selection is to be attempted,
a 1 specifies that the Pertec density-select line is used to toggle
between high and low density;
a 2 specifies that the Pertec speed-select line is used to toggle
between high and low density.
The default is 1, which is appropriate for the
Fujitsu M2444, the
.SM CDC
Keystone III (92185) and
the Telex 9250.
In no case will the controller select among more than 2 densities.
.LP
The
.B xt 
driver supports the character device interface.
.IX  "xt device"  ""  "\fLxt\fP \(em Xylogics 472 1/2-inch tape drive"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "Xylogics 472 1/2-inch tape drive"  ""  "Xylogics 472 1/2-inch tape drive \(em \fLxt\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "tape drive, 1/2-inch"  xt  ""  "\fLxt\fP \(em Xylogics 472"  PAGE END
.IX  "1/2-inch tape drive"  xt  ""  "\fLxt\fP \(em Xylogics 472"  PAGE END
.IX  "472 1/2-inch tape drive"  ""  "472 1/2-inch tape drive \(em \fLxt\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.SS EOT Handling
.LP
The user will be notified of end of tape (\s-1EOT\s0) on write
by a 0 byte count returned the first time this is attempted.
This write must be retried by the user.
Subsequent writes will be successful
until the tape winds off the reel.
Read past 
.SM EOT 
is transparent to the user.
.SS Ioctls
.LP
Not all devices support all ioctls.
The driver returns an
.SM ENOTTY
error on unsupported ioctls.
.LP
1/2\*(rq tape devices do not support the tape retension function.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/rmt0	
low density operation, typically 1600 bpi
.TP
.B /dev/rmt8	
high density operation, typically 6250 bpi
.TP
.B /dev/nrmt*	
non-rewinding
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mt (1),
.BR tar (1),
.BR mtio (4),
.BR st (4S),
.BR suninstall (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Record sizes are restricted to an even number of bytes.
.LP
Absolute file positioning is not fully supported;
it is only meant to be used by 
.BR suninstall (8).
