.\" @(#)xy.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH XY 4S "24 November 1987"
.SH NAME
xy \- Disk driver for Xylogics 450 and 451 SMD Disk Controllers
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-3, SUN-3x, SUN-4 SYSTEMS"
.ft B
.nf
controller xyc0 at vme16d16 ? csr 0xee40 priority 2 vector xyintr 0x48
controller xyc1 at vme16d16 ? csr 0xee48 priority 2 vector xyintr 0x49
disk xy0 at xyc0 drive 0
disk xy1 at xyc0 drive 1
disk xy2 at xyc1 drive 0
disk xy3 at xyc1 drive 1
.fi
.ft R
.LP
The two
.B controller
lines given in the synopsis sections above specify
the first and second Xylogics 450 or 451
.SM SMD
disk controller in a Sun system.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "xy device"  ""  "\fLxy\fP \(em Xylogics SMD Disk driver"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "Xylogics SMD Disk driver"  ""  "Xylogics SMD Disk driver \(em \fLxy\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "450 SMD Disk driver"  ""  "450 SMD Disk driver \(em \fLxy\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "451 SMD Disk driver"  ""  "451 SMD Disk driver \(em \fLxy\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "SMD disk controller"  "Xylogics 450"  ""  "\fLxy\fP \(em Xylogics 450"  PAGE START
.IX  "SMD disk controller"  "Xylogics 451"  ""  "\fLxy\fP \(em Xylogics 451"  PAGE START
.IX  "disk driver"  "Xylogics"  ""  "\fLxy\fP \(em Xylogics"  PAGE START
.LP
Files with minor device numbers 0 through 7 refer to various portions
of drive 0; minor devices 8 through 15 refer to drive 1, and so on.
The standard device names begin with
.B xy
followed by
the drive number and then a letter a-h for partitions 0-7 respectively.
The character
.RB ` ? '
stands here for a drive number in the range 0-7.
.LP
The block files access the disk using the system's normal
buffering mechanism and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.  There is also a \*(lqraw\*(rq interface
which provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call usually results in only one I/O operation;
therefore raw I/O is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.  The names of the raw files conventionally
begin with an extra
.BR r .
.LP
When using raw I/O,
transfer counts should be multiples of 512 bytes (the size of a disk sector).
Likewise, when using
.BR lseek (2V)
to specify block offsets from which to perform raw I/O,
the logical offset should also be a multiple of 512 bytes.
.LP
Due to word ordering differences between the disk controller
and Sun computers,
user buffers that are used for raw I/O must not begin on odd byte boundaries.
.LP
If
.B "flags 0x1"
is specified, the overlapped seeks feature for that drive is turned off.
Note: to be effective, the flag must be set on all drives for a
specific controller. This action is necessary for controllers with older
firmware, which have bugs preventing overlapped seeks from working properly.
.SH "DISK SUPPORT"
This driver handles all
.SM SMD
drives by reading a label from sector
0 of the drive which describes the disk geometry and partitioning.
.LP
The
.B xy?a
partition is normally used for the root file system
on a disk, the
.B xy?b
partition as a paging area,
and the
.B xy?c
partition for pack-pack copying (it normally maps
the entire disk).  The rest of the disk is normally the
.B xy?g
partition.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/xy[0-7][a-h]
block files
.TP
.B /dev/rxy[0-7][a-h]
raw files
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lseek (2V),
.BR read (2V),
.BR directory (3V),
.BR write (2V),
.BR dkio (4S)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B xyc\fIn\fP : self test error
Self test error in controller,
see the Maintenance and Reference Manual.
.TP
.B
xyc\fIn\fP: \s-1WARNING\s0: \fIn\fP bit addresses
The controller is strapped incorrectly.  Sun systems use 20-bit addresses
for Multibus based systems and 24-bit addresses for
.SM VME\s0bus
based systems.
.TP
.B
xy\fIn\fP : unable to read bad sector info
The bad sector forwarding information for the disk could not be read.
.TP
.B
xy\fIn\fP and xy\fIn\fP are of same type (\fIn\fP) with different geometries.
The 450 and 451 do not support mixing the drive types found on these units
on a single controller.
.TP
.B xy\fIn\fP : initialization failed
The drive could not be successfully initialized.
.TP
.B xy\fIn\fP : unable to read label
The drive geometry/partition table information could not be read.
.TP
.B xy\fIn\fP : Corrupt label
The geometry/partition label checksum was incorrect.
.TP
.B xy\fIn\fP : offline
A drive ready status is no longer detected, so the unit has been logically
removed from the system. If the drive ready status is restored, the unit
will automatically come back online the next time it is accessed.
.TP
.B
xy\fInc\fP: \fIcmd how \fP(\fImsg\|\fP) blk \fI#\fIn\fP \fPabs blk #\fIn\fP
A command such as read or write encountered an error condition (\fIhow\fP):
either it
.IR failed ,
the controller was
.IR reset ,
the unit
was
.IR restored ,
or an operation
was
\fIretry\fP'ed.
The
.I msg
is derived from the error number
given by the controller, indicating a condition such as \*(lqdrive not ready\*(rq,
\*(lqsector not found\*(rq or \*(lqdisk write protected\*(rq.  The
.I blk #
is the
sector
in error relative to the beginning of the partition involved.
The
.I abs blk #
is the absolute block number of the sector in error.
Some fields of the error message may be missing since the information
is not always available.
.SH BUGS
In raw I/O
.BR read (2V)
and
.BR write (2V)
truncate file offsets to 512-byte block boundaries, and
.BR write (2V)
scribbles on the tail of incomplete blocks.
Thus, in programs that are likely to access raw devices,
.BR read (2V),
.BR write (2V)
and
.BR lseek (2V)
should always deal in 512-byte multiples.
.LP
Older revisions of the firmware do not properly support overlapped seeks.
This will only affect systems with multiple disks on a single controller.
If a large number of \*(lqzero sector count\*(rq errors appear, you should use the
.B flags
field to disable overlapped seeks.
.IX  "xy device"  ""  "\fLxy\fP \(em Xylogics SMD Disk driver"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "Xylogics SMD Disk driver"  ""  "Xylogics SMD Disk driver \(em \fLxy\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "450 SMD Disk driver"  ""  "450 SMD Disk driver \(em \fLxy\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "451 SMD Disk driver"  ""  "451 SMD Disk driver \(em \fLxy\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "SMD disk controller"  "Xylogics 450"  ""  "\fLxy\fP \(em Xylogics 450"  PAGE END
.IX  "SMD disk controller"  "Xylogics 451"  ""  "\fLxy\fP \(em Xylogics 451"  PAGE END
.IX  "disk driver"  "Xylogics"  ""  "\fLxy\fP \(em Xylogics"  PAGE END
