.\" @(#)zs.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH ZS 4S "17 April 1991"
.SH NAME
zs \- Zilog 8530 SCC serial communications driver
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-3 SYSTEM"
.ft B
.nf
device zs0 at obio ? csr 0x20000 flags 3 priority 3
device zs1 at obio ? csr 0x00000 flags 0x103 priority 3
.ft R
.fi
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-3x SYSTEM"
.ft B
.nf
device zs0 at obio ? csr 0x62002000 flags 3 priority 3
device zs1 at obio ? csr 0x62000000 flags 0x103 priority 3
.ft R
.fi
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-4 SYSTEM"
.ft B
.nf
device zs1 at obio ? csr 0xf0000000 flags 0x103 priority 3
device zs2 at obio 3 csr 0xe0000000 flags 3 priority 3
.ft R
.fi
.SH "CONFIG \(em Desktop SPARCsystems, SPARCsystem 600MP SERIES"
.ft B
.nf
device-driver zs
.fi
.ft R
.SH "CONFIG \(em Sun386i SYSTEM"
.ft B
.nf
device zs0 at obmem ? csr 0xFC000000 flags 3 irq 9 priority 6
.br
device zs1 at obmem ? csr 0xA0000020 flags 0x103 irq 9 priority 6
.ft R
.fi
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <fcntl.h>
#include <sys/termios.h>
open("/dev/tty\fIn\fB", mode);
open("/dev/ttyd\fIn\fB", mode);
open("/dev/cua\fIn\fB", mode);
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "zs device"  ""  "\fLzs\fP \(em zilog 8530 SCC serial communications driver"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "8530 SCC serial communications driver"  ""  "8530 SCC serial communications driver \(em \fLzs\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "serial communications driver \(em \fLzs\fP"  ""  "" "" PAGE START
.LP
The Zilog 8530 provides 2 serial communication ports with full modem control
in asynchronous mode.
Each port supports
.BR termio (4)
device control functions specified by flags in the
.B c_cflag
word of the
.B termios
structure, and the functions specified by the
.BR \s-1IGNBRK\*S ,
.BR \s-1IGNPAR\*S ,
.BR \s-1PARMRK\*S ,
and
.SB INPCK
flags of the
.B c_ciflag
word of the
.B termios
structure.
These functions are performed directly by the
.B zs
driver.  All other
.BR termio (4)
functions must be performed by
.SM STREAMS
modules pushed atop the driver.
When a device is opened, the
.BR ldterm (4M)
and
.BR ttcompat (4M)
.SM STREAMS
modules are automatically pushed on top of the stream, providing the
standard
.BR termio (4)
interface.
.LP
Of the synopsis lines above, the line for
.B zs0
specifies the serial I/O
port(s) provided by the
.SM CPU
board, the line for
.B zs1
specifies the
Video Board ports (which are used for keyboard and mouse),
the lines for
.B zs2
and
.B zs3
specify the first and second ports on the first
.SM SCSI
board in a system, and those for
.B zs4
and
.B zs5
specify the first and
second ports provided by the second
.SM SCSI
board in a system, respectively.
.LP
Bit
.I i
of
.B flags
may be specified to say that a line is not properly
connected, and that the line
.I i
should be treated as hard-wired with carrier
always present.  Thus specifying
.B "flags 0x2"
in the specification of
.B zs0
would treat line
.B /dev/ttyb
in this way.
.LP
Minor device numbers in the range 0 \- 11 correspond directly to the
normal tty lines and are named
.B /dev/ttya
and
.B /dev/ttyb
for the two serial ports on the
.SM CPU
board and
.BI /dev/ttys n
for the ports on the
.SM SCSI
boards;
.I n
is 0 or 1 for the ports on the first
.SM SCSI
board, and 2 or 3 for the ports on the second
.SM SCSI
board.
.LP
To allow a single tty line to be connected to a modem and used for
both incoming and outgoing calls, a special feature, controlled by
the minor device number, has been added.
Minor device numbers in the range 128 \- 139 correspond to the same physical
lines as those above (that is,
the same line as the minor device number minus 128).
.LP
A dial-in line has a minor device in the range 0 \- 11 and
is conventionally renamed
.BI /dev/ttyd n\fR,
where
.I n
is a number indicating which dial-in line it is (so that
.B /dev/ttyd0
is the first dial-in line), and the dial-out line corresponding to that dial-in
line has a minor device number 128 greater than the minor device number of the
dial-in line and is conventionally named
.BI /dev/cua n\fR,
where
.I n
is the number of the dial-in line.
.LP
The
.BI /dev/cua n
lines are special in that they can be opened even when
there is no carrier on the line.
Once a
.BI /dev/cua n
line is opened, the corresponding tty line cannot be
opened until the
.BI /dev/cua n
line is closed; a blocking open will wait until the
.BI /dev/cua n
line is closed (which will drop Data Terminal Ready, after which Carrier Detect
will usually drop as well) and carrier is detected again, and a non-blocking
open will return an error.
Also, if the
.BI /dev/ttyd n
line has been opened successfully (usually only
when carrier is recognized on the modem) the corresponding
.BI /dev/cua n
line can not be opened.
This allows a modem to be attached, for example, to
.B /dev/ttyd0
(renamed from
.BR /dev/ttya )
and used for dial-in (by enabling the line for
login in
.BR /etc/ttytab )
and also used for dial-out (by
.BR tip (1C)
or
.BR uucp (1C))
as
.B /dev/cua0
when no one is logged in on
the line.
Note: the bit in the
.B flags
word in the configuration file (see above) must be zero
for this line,
which enables hardware carrier detection.
.SH IOCTLS
.LP
The standard set of
.B termio
.B ioctl(\|)
calls are supported by
.BR zs .
.LP
If the
.SB CRTSCTS
flag in the
.B c_cflag
is set, output will be generated only if
.SM CTS
is high; if
.SM CTS
is low,
output will be frozen.   If the
.SB CRTSCTS
flag is clear, the state of
.SM CTS
has no effect.
Breaks can be generated by the
.BR \s-1TCSBRK\s0 ,
.BR \s-1TIOCSBRK\s0 ,
and
.SB TIOCCBRK
.B ioctl(\|)
calls.
The modem control lines
.BR \s-1TIOCM_CAR\s0 ,
.BR \s-1TIOCM_CTS\s0 ,
.BR \s-1TIOCM_RTS\s0 ,
and
.SB TIOCM_DTR
are provided.
.LP
The input and output line speeds may be set to any of the speeds
supported by
.BR termio .
The speeds cannot be set independently; when the output speed is set,
the input speed is set to the same speed.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
An
.B open(\|)
will fail if:
.TP 15
.SM ENXIO
The unit being opened does not exist.
.TP 15
.SM EBUSY
The dial-out device is being opened and the dial-in device is already open, or
the dial-in device is being opened with a no-delay open and the dial-out device
is already open.
.TP 15
.SM EBUSY
The unit has been marked as exclusive-use by another process with a
.SB TIOCEXCL
.B ioctl(\|)
call.
.TP 15
.SM EINTR
The open was interrupted by the delivery of a signal.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/tty{a,b,s[0-3]}
hardwired tty lines
.TP
.B /dev/ttyd[0-9a-f]
dial-in tty lines
.TP
.B /dev/cua[0-9a-f]
dial-out tty lines
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tip (1C),
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR mcp (4S),
.BR mti (4S),
.BR termio (4),
.BR ldterm (4M),
.BR ttcompat (4M),
.BR ttysoftcar (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B zs\fIn\|c\fP\|: silo overflow.
The 8530 character input silo overflowed
before it could be serviced.
.TP
.B zs\fIn\|c\fP\|: ring buffer overflow.
The driver's character input ring buffer overflowed
before it could be serviced.
.IX  "zs device"  ""  "\fLzs\fP \(em zilog 8530 SCC serial communications driver"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "8530 SCC serial communications driver"  ""  "8530 SCC serial communications driver \(em \fLzs\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "serial communications driver \(em \fLzs\fP"  ""  "" "" PAGE END
