.\" @(#)bk.4 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH BK 4 "9 October 1987"
.SH NAME
bk \- line discipline for machine-machine communication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pseudo-device bk
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "bk device"  ""  "\fLbk\fP \(em machine-machine communication line discipline"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "machine-machine communication line discipline"  ""  "machine-machine communication line discipline \(em \fLbk\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "line discipline"  ""  "line discipline \(em \fLbk\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.LP
This line discipline provides a replacement for the tty driver
.BR tty (4)
when high speed output to
and especially input from another machine is to be transmitted
over an asynchronous communications line.  The discipline
was designed for use by a (now obsolete) store-and-forward
local network running over serial lines.
It may be suitable for uploading of data from microprocessors into
the system.  If you are going to send data over asynchronous
communications lines at high speed into the system, you must
use this discipline, as the system otherwise may detect high
input data rates on terminal lines and disable the lines;
in any case the processing of such data when normal terminal
mechanisms are involved saturates the system.
.LP
The line discipline is enabled by a sequence:
.IX  "ioctls for terminals"  "TIOCSETD"  "\fLioctl\fP's for terminals"  "\fLTIOCSETD\fP \(em set line discipline"
.IX  "TIOCSETD set line discipline"  ""  "\fLTIOCSETD\fP \(em set line discipline"
.IX  set "line discipline ioctl \(em \fLTIOCSETD\fP"
.IX  "line discipline ioctls"  "TIOCSETD"  "line discipline \fLioctl\fP's" "\fLTIOCSETD\fP \(em set line discipline"
.IX  "bk ioctls"  "TIOCSETD"  "\fLbk ioctl\fP's" "\fLTIOCSETD\fP \(em set line discipline"
.LP
.nf
.ft B
	#include <sgtty.h>
	int ldisc = \s-1NETLDISC\s0, fildes; .\|.\|.
	ioctl(fildes, \s-1TIOCSETD\s0, &ldisc);
.fi
.ft R
.LP
A typical application program then reads a sequence of lines from
the terminal port, checking header and sequencing information on each
line and acknowledging receipt of each line to the sender, who then
transmits another line of data.  Typically several hundred bytes of
data and a smaller amount of control information will be received on
each handshake.
.LP
The old standard teletype discipline can be restored by doing:
.LP
.nf
.ft B
	ldisc = \s-1OTTYDISC\s0;
	ioctl(fildes, \s-1TIOCSETD\s0, &ldisc);
.fi
.ft R
.LP
While in networked mode, normal teletype output functions take place.
Thus, if an 8 bit output data path is desired, it is necessary
to prepare the output line by putting it into
.SM RAW
mode using
.BR ioctl (2).
.IX  "ioctls for terminals"  "TIOCGETD"  "\fLioctl\fP's for terminals"  "\fLTIOCGETD\fP \(em get line discipline"
.IX  "TIOCGETD get line discipline"  ""  "\fLTIOCGETD\fP \(em get line discipline"
.IX  get "line discipline \fLioctl\fP \(em \fLTIOCGETD\fP"
.IX  "line discipline ioctls"  "TIOCGETD"  "line discipline \fLioctl\fP's" "\fLTIOCGETD\fP \(em get line discipline"
.IX  "bk ioctls"  "TIOCGETD"  "\fLbk ioctl\fP's" "\fLTIOCGETD\fP \(em get line discipline"
This must be done
.I before
changing the discipline with
.BR \s-1TIOCSETD\s0 ,
as most
.BR ioctl (2)
calls are disabled while in network line-discipline mode.
.LP
When in network mode, input processing is very limited to reduce overhead.
Currently the input path is only 7 bits wide, with newline the only
character terminating an input record.
Each input record must be read and acknowledged before the next input
is read as the system refuses to accept any new data when there
is a record in the buffer.  The buffer is limited in length, but the
system guarantees to always be willing to accept input resulting in
512 data characters and then the terminating newline.
.LP
User level programs should provide sequencing and checksums on the
information to guarantee accurate data transfer.
.IX  "bk device"  ""  "\fLbk\fP \(em machine-machine communication line discipline"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "machine-machine communication line discipline"  ""  "machine-machine communication line discipline \(em \fLbk\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "line discipline"  ""  "line discipline \(em \fLbk\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR tty (4)
