.\" @(#)checknews.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH CHECKNEWS 1 "6 March 1984"
.SH NAME
checknews \- check if user has news on the USENET news network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR checknews " [ " ynqevv " ]  [ "
.IR "readnews options" " ] "
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  checknews  ""  "\fLchecknews\fP \(em check for news"
.IX  news  "checknews command"  news  "\fLchecknews\fP \(em check for news"
.IX  USENET  "checknews command"  USENET  "\fLchecknews\fP \(em check for news"
.IX  "network news"  "checknews command"  ""  "\fLchecknews\fP \(em check for news"
.I checknews
reports to the user whether or not there is news.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 3
.B y
Reports `There is news' if the user has news to read.
.B y
is the default if no options are specified.
.TP 3
.B n
Reports `No news' if there isn't any news to read.
.TP 3
.B q
Makes
.I  checknews
quiet.  Instead of displaying a message, the exit status indicates news.
A status of 0 means no news, 1 means there is news.
.TP 3
.B v
alters the
.B y
message to show the name of the first newsgroup containing unread news.
Doubling
.B v
(that is,
.BR vv )
displays a report of
.I any
claim of new news, and is useful if
.B checknews
and
.B readnews
disagree on whether there is news.
.TP 3
.B e
Executes
.IR readnews (1)
if there is news.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
~/.newsrc
Options and list of previously read articles
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/active
Active newsgroups
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
inews(1),
postnews(1),
readnews(1)
.br
\fINetwork News User's Guide\fP in the
\fIBeginner's Guide to the Sun Workstation\fP.
