.\" @(#)chill.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH CHILL 8 "06 April 1988"
.SH NAME
chill \- remove useful pages from the virtual memory cache
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chill
[
.B \-c
.I cycles
]
[
.B \-f
.I factor
]
[
.B \-m
.I memsize
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "chill remove" "" "\fLchill\fP \(em remove useful pages from virtual memory cache" ""
.IX "remove" "useful pages from cache"
.IX memory "remove useful pages from cache"
.IX "cool" "cool off system"
.LP
.B chill
is a command designed to cool off the system by removing any
useful (to a process) pages from the virtual memory cache.
.B chill
does this by creating a large pool of private pages,
and then cycling through the pool, dirtying every page.
Currently, this forces
.BR chill 's
pages to be hot, which forces out all the other (non-locked)
pages in the system.  Then when
.B chill
exits, all its private pages are put on the free list,
leaving no useful pages in memory.
.LP
With no options specified,
the size of the pool created by
.B chill
is twice the amount of pageable memory,
and it is cycled through just once.
This seems to give correct results with minimal overhead.
.LP
However, the size of the pool may be explicitly specified as
.IR memsize ,
or as
.I factor
times the amount of pageable memory.
.I memsize
overrides the
.I factor
specification.
The cycle count may be specified as
.IR cycles .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-c " cycles
Set the cycle count to
.IR cycles .
The default is 1.
.TP
.BI "\-f " factor
Set the expansion factor to
.IR factor .
The default is 2.
.TP
.BI "\-m " memsize
Set the memory size to
.IR memsize .
The default is unspecified, which means that
.I factor
times the amount of pageable memory will be used.
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B chill
is dependent on implementation details
which are subject to change.
