.TH DATE 1 "16 July 1983"
.\" @(#)date.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.SH NAME
date \- display or set the date
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B date
.RB "[ \fB\-u\fP ] [ yymmddhhmm [ " . "ss ] ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "date command"  ""  "\fLdate\fP \(em date and time"
.IX display  date
.IX display  "date and time"
.IX display  "time and date"
.IX time  "display date and"
\fIDate\fP displays the current date and time when used without an argument.
.LP
Only the super-user may \fBset\fP the date.
.I yy
is the last two digits of the year; the first
.I mm
is the month number;
.I dd
is the day number in the month;
.I hh
is the hour number (24 hour system);
the second
.I mm
is the minute number;
.BI . ss
(optional) specifies seconds.
The year, month and day may be omitted; the current values are supplied
as defaults.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-u\fP 
Display the date in GMT (universal time).
The system operates in GMT; \fIdate\fP normally takes care of the
conversion to and from local standard and daylight time. 
\fB\-u\fP may also be used to set GMT time.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
.IP
date 10080045
.LP
sets the date to Oct 8, 12:45 AM.
.SH FILES
/usr/adm/wtmp		to record time-setting
.SH SEE ALSO
utmp(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
`Failed to set date: Not owner' if you try to change the date but are not
the super-user.
.\"`No permission' if
.\"you aren't the super-user and you try to change the date;
.\"`bad conversion' if the date set is syntactically incorrect.
.  \".SH BUGS
.  \"The system attempts to keep the date in a format closely compatible
.  \"with VMS.  VMS, however, uses local time (rather than GMT) and does
.  \"not understand daylight savings time.  Thus if you use both UNIX
.  \"and VMS, VMS will be running on GMT.
