.\" @(#)diag.8s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH DIAG 8S "25 July 1986"
.SH NAME
diag \- stand-alone disk initialization and diagnosis
.SH SYNOPSIS
>\fBb stand/diag\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "diag command"  ""  "\fLdiag\fP \(em initialize/diagnose disk"
.IX  "initialize/diagnose disk"  ""  "initialize/diagnose disk \(em \fLdiag\fP"
.IX  "diagnose/initialize disk"  ""  "diagnose/initialize disk \(em \fLdiag\fP"
.IX  disk "diagnose/initialize \(em \fLdiag\fP"
.IX  "stand-alone utilities"  diag  ""  "\fLdiag\fP \(em initialize/diagnose disk"
\fIDiag\fP is a general purpose stand-alone package
for initializing, diagnosing, and repairing disks.
It supports the various 
.SM SMD
and
.SM SCSI
disk controllers.
.LP
\fBNote\fP: \fIDiag\fP is not a system utility and can only be called 
from the Sun Workstation
.SM PROM
monitor. 
.LP
The most common use of \fIdiag\fP is formatting and labelling a disk
\(em see the \fIformat\fP, \fIlabel\fP, and \fIpartition\fP commands.
.LP
Immediately after startup, \fIdiag\fP
prompts for information about the particular disk drive(s) and controller(s) 
it is to work with.  
There is a facility for specifying additional information
about nonstandard disks.
.LP
\fIDiag\fR tries to access the disk controller you have defined.  If the 
attempt succeeds,
it gives you a status report on the disk and issues the `diag>' prompt. 
If the attempt fails (if the controller is ill-defined or 
nonexistent), you get a bus error message,
and return to the PROM monitor.
.LP
Once configured, \fIdiag\fR accepts the comands listed below.  Only enough 
characters to uniquely identify the command need be typed.  
.IP \fBabortdma\fP 12
Aborts/does not abort the \fIdmatest\fP command when a data
miscompare is detected.  That is, if the internal variable set by
\fIabortdma\fP is `on' (default), the \fIdmatest\fP command aborts as soon as
it finds an error; otherwise, the \fIdmatest\fP continues.
.IP \fBclear\fP 12
Sends a restore command to a disk.  This is needed to manually reset
disk faults.
.IP \fBdiag\fP
Re-initializes the \fIdiag\fP program itself \(em goes back to phase one
of the initialization process described above.
.IP \fBdmatest\fP
Begins a continuous DMA test.  The test copies random data to and from
the designated controller, comparing data.  If a miscompare is found, an
error message is displayed and the test aborts (unless the \fIabortdma\fP
command is used \(em see \fIabortdma\fP,
above).  \fBNote\fP:  this command is available only with the Xylogics
450 Controller.
.IP \fBerrors\fP
Reports/does not report all errors as they occur
(toggles; default is reporting off).
.IP \fBfix\fP
Formats and verifies a range of tracks; any defective tracks/sectors
found are automatically corrected using mapping or slipping.
\fBNote:\fP  this command is available for SMD controllers only.
.\"Interphase controller or Xylogics controller).  This command is not available
.\"for use with Adaptec disk controllers (ST-506 interface). 
.IP \fBformat\fP
For SMD disks, formats the entire disk; for SCSI disks,
initiates the SCSI \fIformat\fP program.
.\"(Interphase and Xylogics controllers).
.\"With Adaptec disk controllers (ST-506 interface),
.IP \fBsformat\fP
Initiates a special formatting program that allows manual manipulation of
the defect list.  \fBNote\fP:  this command is available for SMD controllers
only.  For SCSI controllers, use the \fIformat\fP command.
.IP "\fBhelp\fP or \fB?\fP"
Displays a list of the available commands.
.IP \fBinfo\fP
Reports/suppresses report of all disk activity as it completes
.\"Toggles an option to report
(toggles; default is reporting off).
.IP \fBlabel\fP
Labels the disk. 
.IP \fBmap\fP
Displays current mappings and allows you to
explicitly map one track/sector to a different track/sector.
Usually used for manual bad sector mapping.  The \fIformat\fP
and \fIfix\fP commands usually do this automatically
when a bad track/sector is found.
\fBNote:\fP  the \fImap\fP command is disk controller-dependent:
you can \fImap\fP tracks with an Interphase controller, and sectors with
Xylogics controllers.  This command is not available for use
with SCSI disk controllers.
.IP \fBmapcheck\fP
Enables/disables checking for overlapping mapped sectors/tracks during
the \fIposition\fP, \fIread\fP, \fItest\fP, or \fIwrite\fP commands.  If 
the internal variable set by \fImapcheck\fP is `on'
when an error occurs (default),
then the current mappings (if any) are read from the disk and checked to see if
there are overlapping mappings over the area of the disk where the
transfer failed.
.IP \fBpartition\fP
Creates, assigns, or modifies logical partition tables for a disk.
The UNIX operating system requires logical partitions.  The \fIlabel\fP
command writes the partition map to the disk.  There are standard
partition tables for each type of disk that \fIdiag\fP knows about.
.IP \fBposition\fP
Continuously tests the disk by reading random sectors from the disk.
To abort the test, type
.\"This command runs until the user aborts it by typing
a \fB^C\fP (CONTROL-C).
.IP \fBquit\fP
Quits from \fIdiag\fP and returns to the PROM monitor.
.IP \fBrhdr\fP
Reads and displays the track headers for a specified track.
\fBNote:\fP  this command is available for Xylogics controllers only.
.IP \fBread\fP
Reads specified blocks from the disk.  The \fIread\fP command prompts
for the starting block number, number of blocks, and the block
increment.  The \fIread\fP command doesn't report the data it reads \(em
it is intended for verifying that blocks are readable.
.IP \fBscan\fP
Continuously scans over a range of sectors looking for defective sectors
by writing/reading/verifying various bit patterns to sequential sectors.
Any data on the disk in the range to be scanned is destroyed.
Sectors previously mapped are not scanned,
so any errors reported will be newly found defective sectors.
If used with a Xylogics controller,
defective sectors can be automatically mapped/slipped when they are found.
To abort the \fIscan\fP, type a \fB^C\fP (CONTROL-C).
.\"This command runs until the user aborts it by typing
.IP \fBseek\fP
Performs a seek test on the disk: it can either continuously seek between
two specified blocks or seek to every
cylinder and every possible cylinder distance.
.IP \fBslip\fP
Explicitly slips one sector on a track.
Usually used for manual bad sector slipping.
The \fIformat\fP and \fIfix\fP commands usually do this automatically
when bad sectors are found and the proper conditions exist.
\fBNote:\fP  slipping is available only with Xylogics controllers,
and only when the disk has a spare data sector per track.
.IP \fBslipmsgs\fP
Displays/suppresses display of track headers before and after each slip
operation that occurs during the \fIfix\fP, \fIformat\fP, and \fIslip\fP
commands (toggles; default is display off).
.IP \fBstatus\fP
Reports the ready status of each drive on the current controller.
.IP \fBtest\fP
Continuously tests the disk
by writing random data to random sectors on
the disk and then verifying that the correct data can be read back.  The
\fItest\fP command destroys data on the disk.
To abort the \fItest\fP, type a \fB^C\fP (CONTROL-C).
.IP \fBtime\fP
Turns timing on/off.  When timing is on,
\fIdiag\fP reports on how long certain operations take \(em \fIdiag\fP is less
verbose in this state so it doesn't waste time displaying messages
(toggles; default is timing off).
.IP \fBtranslate\fP
Translates a given block number into its decimal value,
hexadecimal value, and logical disk address.
.IP \fBverify\fP
Reads and displays the label from the disk.  Shows the logical partition
assignments.  This is done automatically when the \fIlabel\fP
command has labelled the disk.
.IP \fBversion\fP
Displays the SCCS identification string for this version of \fIdiag\fP.
.IP \fBwhdr\fP
Modifies and writes the track headers for a specified track.
\fBNote:\fP  this command is available with Xylogics controllers only.
Also, it should be used only for specialized patching \(em misuse may
destroy track data.
.IP \fBwrite\fP
Verifies that blocks are writable by writing garbage data to
specified blocks on the disk.  The \fIwrite\fP
command prompts for the starting block number, number of blocks, and the block
increment.
.IP \fB+\fP
Adds two block numbers and reports the result in decimal, hexadecimal,
and as a logical disk address.
.IP \fB\-\fP
Subtracts two block numbers and reports the result in decimal, hexadecimal,
and as a logical disk address.
.LP
Block numbers may be entered either as an absolute decimal block number,
or as a disk address of the form cylinder/head/sector.
.LP
Any \fIdiag\fP command may be aborted by typing a \fB^C\fP (CONTROL-C).
