.\" @(#)ec.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH EC 4S "9 October 1987"
.SH NAME
ec \- 3Com 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface
.SH "CONFIG \(em SUN-2 SYSTEM"
.ft B
.nf
device ec0 at mbmem ? csr 0xe0000 priority 3
device ec1 at mbmem ? csr 0xe2000 priority 3
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ec device"  ""  "\fLec\fP \(em 3Com 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "3Com 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface ec"  ""  "3Com 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface \(em \fLec\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "10 Mb/s 3Com Ethernet interface ec"  ""  "10 Mb/s 3Com Ethernet interface \(em \fLec\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "Ethernet controller"  "ec"  ""  "\fLec\fP \(em 10 Mb/s 3Com Ethernet interface"  PAGE START
.LP
The
.B ec
interface provides access to a 10 Mb/s Ethernet
network through a 3\s-1COM\s0 controller.
For a general description of network interfaces see
.BR if (4N).
.LP
The hardware consumes 8 kilobytes of Multibus memory space.
This memory is used for internal buffering by the board.
The board starts at standard addresses 0xE0000 or 0xE2000.  The board
must be configured for interrupt level 3.
.LP
The interface software implements an exponential backoff algorithm
when notified of a collision on the cable.
.LP
The interface handles the Internet protocol family,
with the interface address maintained in Internet format.
The Address Resolution Protocol
.BR arp (4P)
is used to map 32-bit Internet addresses used in
.BR inet (4F)
to the 48-bit addresses used on the Ethernet.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 10
.B ec%d: Ethernet jammed
After 16 failed transmissions and
backoffs using the
exponential backoff algorithm, the packet was dropped.
.TP
.B ec%d: can't handle af%d
The interface was handed a message with
addresses formatted in an unsuitable address
family; the packet was dropped.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR arp (4P),
.BR if (4N),
.BR inet (4F)
.\".br
.\"3COM 3C400 Multibus Ethernet Controller Reference Manual (Sun 800-0398)
.SH BUGS
The interface hardware is not capable of talking to itself, making
diagnosis more difficult.
.IX  "ec device"  ""  "\fLec\fP \(em 3Com 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "3Com 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface ec"  ""  "3Com 10 Mb/s Ethernet interface \(em \fLec\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "10 Mb/s 3Com Ethernet interface ec"  ""  "10 Mb/s 3Com Ethernet interface \(em \fLec\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "Ethernet controller"  "ec"  ""  "\fLec\fP \(em 10 Mb/s 3Com Ethernet interface"  PAGE END
