.\" @(#)iconedit.1 1.4 85/09/17 SMI; Put into SCCS 27 March 1985.
.TH ICONEDIT 1 "17 September 1985"
.IX "SunWindows" "icon edit"
.IX "iconedit"
.IX "editor" "icon"
.SH NAME
iconedit \- create and edit icons and cursors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B iconedit 
[
.I
filename
]
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.I iconedit
accepts the SunWindows generic tool arguments;
see 
.IR suntools (1)
for a list of these arguments.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I iconedit
is a bitmap editor that allows you to create small images
such as icons and cursors.
.I iconedit
runs in the SunWindows environment and can be positioned and manipulated
in the same way as any other
SunWindows tool.
For general hints on using SunWindows tools, see
.IR suntools (1).
.LP
When invoked, 
.I iconedit
displays a window consisting of several subwindows:
.IP \(bu 3
A large drawing area or \fIcanvas\fP (on the left).
.IP \(bu 3
A small proof area 
for previewing a life-size version of the image being edited 
(at the lower right).
.IP \(bu 3
A control panel showing the options available and their
current state.
.IP \(bu 3
An area for status messages (at the upper right).
.LP
Instructions for the use of the mouse appear above the
canvas.
.LP
Move the cursor to the canvas, press and hold the left mouse button,
and move the mouse as desired to draw an image.  
As you draw, an enlarged version of the image appears in the canvas,
while a life-sized version of the image appears in the preview area.
To ``erase'' any unwanted portions
of the image,
press and hold the center mouse button 
while moving the mouse as desired.
Clicking the right mouse button inside the canvas will undo
the previous operation.
.LP
If you are editing a cursor image,
move the cursor into the proof area to turn the
proof image into the mouse cursor.
This effect only lasts while you are in the proof area;
it allows you to test how the new cursor looks during ``real'' use. 
.LP
Note that in this writeup, the term ``cursor'' refers to the mouse cursor,
while the term ``caret'' indicates the current type-in position.
.sp
.SH CONTROL PANEL
.LP
The control panel at the center right of the tool window
lists the options available to you.
.LP
To select an option, position the cursor on the desired item
and click the left mouse button.
.LP
To display a menu for an item, 
position the cursor on the desired item,
then press and hold the right mouse button.
To select an alternative from the menu, point at the desired alternative
and release the mouse button.
If you are just starting out, you
may want to use the menus until you become familiar with the tool.
.LP
Some of the panel options are \fIbuttons\fP which you press, in effect,
by pointing to them and clicking the left mouse button.
Load and Store are two examples of buttons.
A small capsule-shaped box encloses each button.
.LP
Other choices give you a set of alternatives from which to select.
You can cycle through a set of alternatives for a given item
by pointing to the item label and repeatedly clicking the left mouse button.
.LP
The ``painting hand'' indicates the current painting mode.
Small triangular carets indicate the current state of the Size and 
grid options as well as the proof background pattern.
A triangular caret points to the current type-in position;
this can be either the File field or the Fill field
corresponding to the Text (``abc'') painting mode
(see below).
.LP
In detail, the control panel options are:
.IP File
Contains the name of the file where the current image resides.
To use a different file from the one shown,
point at the file name, click the left mouse button, 
and type a new file name.
The filename defaults to
the filename given on the command line.
.IP
Entering an alphabetic string terminated by <ESC> requests filename completion.
\fIiconedit\fP searches the current directory for files whose names
begin with the string you entered.
If the filename search locates only one file,
that file will be loaded in.
In addition, 
typing CTRL-L, CTRL-S, or CTRL-Q 
are equivalent to pressing the 
Load, Store, or Quit buttons, respectively.
.IP Load
(Button) 
Load the canvas from the file named in the File field.
.IP Store
(Button) 
Store the current image in the file named in the File field.
.IP Quit
(Button) 
Terminate processing.
Quitting requires a confirming click of the left mouse button.
.IP Size
Alter the canvas size.
Choices are icon size (64 x 64 pixels)
or cursor size (16 x 16 pixels).
Default is icon size.
.IP Grid
Display a grid over the drawing canvas,
or turn the grid off.
Default is ``grid off''.
.IP Clear
(Button) 
Clear the canvas.
.IP Fill
(Button) 
Fill canvas with current rectangular fill pattern.
.IP Invert
(Button) 
Invert each pixel represented on the canvas.
.IP Paintbrush
Select from among five modes of painting. 
The painting hand indicates the current painting mode.
Point at the desired mode and click the left mouse button to move the
painting hand.
The current painting mode remains until you change it.
Instructions for each painting mode appear above the canvas.
The painting modes are:
.RS
.IP dot
Paint a single dot at a time.
.IP line
Draw a line.
To draw a line on the canvas, point to the first endpoint of the line,
and press and hold the left mouse button.
While holding the button down, drag the cursor to the second endpoint
of the line.  
Release the mouse button.
.IP rectangle
Draw a rectangle.
To draw a rectangle on the canvas, point to the first corner of the rectangle 
and press and hold the left mouse button.
While holding the button down, drag the cursor to the diagonally 
opposite corner of the rectangle.
Release the mouse button.
.IP
In the control panel,
the Fill field to the right of the rectangle
indicates the current rectangle fill pattern.
Any rectangles you paint on the canvas will be filled with this pattern.
.IP circle
Draw a circle.
To draw a circle on the canvas,
point to the center of the circle,
and press and hold the left mouse button.
While holding the button down, drag the cursor to the
desired edge of the circle.
Release the mouse button.
.IP
In the control panel,
the Fill field to the right of the circle
indicates the current circle fill pattern.
Any circles you paint on the canvas will be filled with this pattern.
.IP abc
Insert text.
To insert text, move the painting hand to ``abc'' and
type the desired text.
Then move the cursor to the canvas and press and hold the left mouse button.
A box will appear where the text is to go.
Position the box as desired and release the mouse button.
.IP
In addition, you can choose the font in which to draw the text.
Point at the Fill field to the right of the ``abc'' and either click the
left mouse button to cycle through the fonts available
(watch the ``abc'' change as you do this),
or press and hold the right mouse button to summon up a menu of fonts.
.RE
.LP
.IP "Load"
This is the rasterop to be used when loading a file in from disk.
See the \fISunWindows Reference Manual\fP for more details on rasterops.
.IP "Fill"
This is the rasterop to be used when filling the canvas.
The source for this operation is the rectangle fill pattern,
and the destination is the canvas.
.IP "Proof"
This is the rasterop to be used when rendering the proof image.
The source for this operation is the proof image,
and the destination is the proof background.
.IP "Proof background"
The proof background can be changed to allow you to preview how the image
will appear against a variety of patterns.
The squares just above the proof area
show the patterns available for use as the proof background pattern.
To change the proof background, point at the desired
pattern and click the left mouse button.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.IR suntools (1)
.SH FILES
.LP
/usr/bin/iconedit
