.\" @(#)inews.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH INEWS 1 "13 March 1984"
.SH NAME
inews \- submit news articles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B inews
[
.B \-h
]
.B \-t
.IR title " [ "
.B \-n 
.IR newsgroups " ] [ "
.B \-e 
.IR "expiration date" " ]"
.LP
.B "inews \-p"
.RI " [ " filename " ] "
.LP
.BI "inews \-C " newsgroup
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  inews  ""  "\fLinews\fP \(em submit news articles"
.IX  "network news"  "inews"  ""  "\fLinews\fP \(em submit news articles"
.IX  "submit news articles"
.LP
.I Inews
submits news articles to the
.SM USENET
news network.
.I Inews
is intended as a raw interface to the news system, not as a human user
interface.  Casual users should probably use
.IR postnews (1)
instead.
.LP
The first form of 
.I inews
is for submitting user articles.
The body of the article is read from the standard input.  A
.I title
must be specified as there is no default.  Each article
belongs to a list of newsgroups.  The standard list of newsgroups is
used if the list is not specified via the
.B \-n
option.
On the Sun system, the standard subscription list is:
.IR general,
.IR all.general ,
.IR general ,
.IR all.announce ,
.IR !junk ,
.IR !control ,
and
.IR !test .
If you wish to submit an article in multiple newsgroups, the
.I newsgroups
must be separated by commas and/or spaces.  The expiration
date is set to the local default if not otherwise specified.
.LP
When posting an article, the environment is checked for
information about the sender.  If
.SM NAME
is found, its value is used for the full name,
rather than the system value obtained from
.IR /etc/passwd .
This is useful if the system value cannot be set, or when
more than one person uses the same login.  If
.SM ORGANIZATION
is found, the value overrides the system default organization.
This is useful when a person uses a guest login and is
not primarily associated with the organization owning the machine.
.LP
The second form of
.I inews
is for receiving articles from other machines.  If
.I filename
is given, the article is read from the specified file; otherwise
the article is read from the standard input.  An expiration date
need not be present and a receival date is ignored if present.
.LP
After local installation,
.I inews
transmits the article to all systems
that subscribe to the newsgroups that the article belongs to.
.LP
The third form of
.I inews
is for creating new newsgroups.  On some systems, this may
be limited to specific users such as the super-user or news administrator.
This is true on the Sun system.
.LP
If the file
.I /usr/lib/news/recording
is present, it is taken as a list of
`recordings' to be shown to users posting news.
This is an analogy to the recording you hear when you dial information
in some parts of the country, asking you if you really wanted to do this.
.I /usr/lib/news/recording
contains lines of the form:
.br
	newsgroups <tab> filename
.br
for example:
.br
	net.all	net.recording
	fa.all	fa.recording
.br
Any user posting an article to a newsgroup matching the pattern on
the left is shown the contents of the file on the right.
The file is found in the
.SM LIB
directory (often
.IR /usr/lib/news ).
The user is then told to hit DEL to abort or RETURN to proceed.
The intent of this feature is to help companies keep proprietary
information from accidently leaking out.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-n\fP " \fInewsgroups\fP"
specifies a list of newsgroups to which the articles are submitted.
Elements in the list must be separated by commas and/or spaces.  The expiration
date is set to the local default if not otherwise specified.
.TP
\fB\-f\fP [\|\fIsender\fP\|]
Specifies the article's sender.  Without this flag, the sender
defaults to the user's name.  If
.B \-f
is specified, the real sender's name is included as a Sender line.
.TP
.B \-h
Headers are present at the beginning of the
article, and these headers should be included with the article
header instead of as text.
This mechanism can be used to edit headers and supply additional
nondefault headers, but not to specify certain information,
such as the sender and article ID that
.I inews
itself generates.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
/usr/spool/news/.sys.nnn
temporary articles
.TP 25
.RI /usr/spool/news/ newsgroups / article_no.
Articles
.TP 25
/usr/spool/oldnews/
Expired articles
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/active
List of known newsgroups and highest local article numbers in each.
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/seq
Sequence number of last article
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/history
List of all articles ever seen
.TP 25
/usr/lib/news/sys
System subscription list
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mail(1),
binmail(1),
getdate(3),
news(5),
newsrc(5),
postnews(1),
readnews(1),
recnews(1),
sendnews(8),
uucp(1),
uurec(8),
.br
\fINetwork News User's Guide\fP in the
\fIBeginner's Guide to the Sun Workstation\fP.
