.\" @(#)ip.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH IP 4S "18 September 1985"
.SH NAME
ip \- Disk driver for Interphase 2180 SMD Disk Controller
.SH "SYNOPSIS \(em SUN-2"
.ft B
.nf
controller ipc0 at mbio ? csr 0x040 priority 2
controller ipc1 at mbio ? csr 0x044 priority 2
disk ip0 at ipc0 drive0
disk ip1 at ipc0 drive1
disk ip2 at ipc1 drive0
disk ip3 at ipc1 drive1
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ip4s device"  ""  "\fLip\fP \(em Interphase SMD Disk driver"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "Interphase SMD Disk driver"  ""  "Interphase SMD Disk driver \(em \fLip\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "2180 SMD Disk driver"  ""  "2180 SMD Disk driver \(em \fLip\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "SMD disk controller"  "Interphase 2180"  ""  "\fLip\fP \(em Interphase 2180"  PAGE START
.IX  "disk driver"  "Interphase"  ""  "\fLip\fP \(em Interphase"  PAGE START
Special files \fIip*\fP refer to disk devices controlled by an
Interphase SMD 2180 disk controller. 
.LP 
The standard \fIip\fP device names begin with the letters ``ip'',
followed by the drive unit number, followed by a letter from the series
a \- h to name one of the eight partitions on the drive. 
For example, \fI/dev/ip1c\fP refers to partition c on the second drive
controlled by the Interphase controller. 
.LP 
The device names provide the binding into the minor device numbers for
the driver software.  Files with minor device
numbers 0 through 7 refer to the eight partitions (a \- h) of unit 0;
files with device numbers 8 through 15 refer to the eight partitions of
drive 1, and so on.
.LP
The block files access the disk via the system's normal
buffering mechanism, and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.  There is also a `raw' interface
which provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call results in exactly one I/O operation
and therefore raw I/O is considerably more effficient when
many words are transmitted.  Raw files conventionally have a leading
``r'' \(em \fI/dev/rip0c\fP, for instance.
.LP
In raw I/O, counts should be a multiple of 512 bytes (a disk sector).
Likewise
.I seek
calls should specify a multiple of 512 bytes.
.SH "DISK SUPPORT"
.LP
This driver handles all SMD drives by reading a label from sector
0 of the drive which describes the disk geometry and partitioning.
.LP
The ip?a partition is normally used for the root file system
on a disk, the ip?b partition as a paging area,
and the ip?c partition for pack-pack copying (it normally maps
the entire disk).  The rest of the disk is normally the ip?g
partition.
.SH FILES
/dev/ip[0-7][a-h]	block files
.br
/dev/rip[0-7][a-h]	raw files
.SH SEE ALSO
dkio(4S), xy(4S)
.\".LP
.\"``Interphase SMD2180 Storage Module Controller/Formatter \- User's Guide'' (Sun 800-0274)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
ip\fIn\fR: SMD-2180
When booting tells the controller type.
.TP
ip\fIn\fR\|: initialization failed
Because the controller didn't
respond; perhaps another device is at the address the system
expected an Interphase controller at.
.TP
ip\fIn\fR\|: error \fIn\fR reading label on head \fIn\fR
Error reading drive geometry/partition table information.
.TP
ip\fIn\fR\|: Corrupt label on head \fIn\fR\|
The geometry/partition label checksum was incorrect.
.TP
ip\fIn\fR\|: Misplaced label on head \fIn\fR\|
A disk label was copied to the wrong head on the disk; shoudn't happen.
.TP
ip\fIn\fR\|: Unsupported phys partition # \fIn\fR\|
This indicates a bad label.
.TP
\fBip\fIn\fR\|: unit not online
.TP
ip\fIn\|c\fR\|: \fIcmd\fP \fIhow\fP \fI(msg)\fP blk \fIn\fR
A command such as read, write, or format encountered a error condition 
(how): either it \fIfailed\fP, the unit was \fIrestored\fP, or an 
operation was \fIretry\fP'ed.  The \fImsg\fP is derived from the error 
number given by the controller, indicating a condition such as 
"drive not ready", "sector not found" or "disk write protected".
.SH BUGS
In raw I/O
.I read
and
.IR write (2V)
truncate file offsets to 512-byte block boundaries, and
.I write
scribbles on the tail of incomplete blocks.
Thus, in programs that are likely to access raw devices,
.I read, write
and
.IR lseek (2)
should always deal in 512-byte multiples.
.IX  "ip4s device"  ""  "\fLip\fP \(em Interphase SMD Disk driver"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "Interphase SMD Disk driver"  ""  "Interphase SMD Disk driver \(em \fLip\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "2180 SMD Disk driver"  ""  "2180 SMD Disk driver \(em \fLip\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "SMD disk controller"  "Interphase 2180"  ""  "\fLip\fP \(em Interphase 2180"  PAGE END
.IX  "disk driver"  "Interphase"  ""  "\fLip\fP \(em Interphase"  PAGE END
