.\" @(#)load_package.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new for SPARCstation 1
.TH LOAD_PACKAGE 8 "23 May 1989"
.SH NAME
load_package \- install additional packages from a release tape or floppy
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available on \s-1SPARC\s0station 1
systems only.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/install/script/load_package
[
.BI \-a " kernel_arch"
] [
.BI \-e " execpath"
] [
.BI \-k " kvmpath"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "load_package install" "" "\fLload_package\fP \(em install packages from tape or floppy" ""
.IX install "additional packages from tape or floppy"
.IX tape "install additional packages from"
.IX floppy "install additional packages from"
.IX release "install packages from tape or floppy"
.IX add "install packages from tape or floppy"
.LP
.B load_package
is normally used on systems that come with
a release preloaded on disk.
It allows you to load additional packages onto your system.
.LP
You must be the super-user to run
.BR load_package .
.LP
Currently,
.B load_package
is a front end to
.BR setup_exec (8),
and makes assumptions about the architecture,
the kernel, and application executables paths
based on the system it's running on.  
However,
.B load_package
undoes the modifications to
.B /etc/exports
that
.BR setup_exec (8)
makes.
.LP
When support for a
\s-1SPARC\s0station 1
client is added to a server,
.B load_package
is automatically installed in the
Sun-4 system's
.B .\|.\|./suninstall/script
directory.
.LP
If you are running 
.B load_package
on the same system that the
additional packages will be used on and the standard
.I execpath
.RB ( /export/exec/kernel_arch )
and
.I kvmpath
.RB ( /export/exec/kvm/kernel_arch )
are used, no 
.B load_package
options need to be specified.
.LP
If you are running 
.B load_package
on a server to add packages for
a client and the standard
.I execpath
.RB ( /export/exec/kernel_arch )
and
.I kvmpath
.RB ( /export/exec/kvm/kernel_arch )
are used, you need to
specify only the client's kernel architecture.
.LP
If neither of the above cases apply to you, you may completely
specify the application architecture executable path name, the
kernel architecture executable path name and the kernel
architecture of the system the additional packages will run on.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI \-a " kernel_arch"
Specify the kernel architecture of the system whose
executables are being installed.
See
.BR arch (1)
for more information on kernel and application architectures.
Defaults to the value returned by
.RB ` "arch \-k" ',
if not specified.
.TP
.BI \-e " execpath"
Specify the full path name of the application architecture executables
directory.
This is usually
.BR /export/exec/appl_arch .
Defaults to
.BR /export/exec/\s-1KERNEL_ARCH\s0 ,
if not specified.
.TP
.BI \-k " kvmpath"
Specify the full path name of the kernel architecture executables
directory. 
This is usually
.BR /export/exec/kvm/kernel_arch .
Defaults to
.BR /export/exec/kvm/\s-1KERNEL_ARCH\s0 ,
if not specified.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
To load packages onto a
\s-1SPARC\s0station 1
in the \*(lqnormal\*(rq places:
.RS
.ft B
example% load_package
.ft R
.RE
.LP
To load packages for a \s-1SPARC\s0station 1 client on a Sun-3 server,
in the \*(lqnormal\*(rq places:
.RS
.ft B
example% load_package \-a sun4c
.ft R
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /etc/exports.load-package
used to keep a copy of the exports file
.TP
.B /etc/xtab.load-package	
used to re-export all files when done
.PD
.br
.ne 5
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR arch (1)
.BR setup_exec (8)
.LP
.TX INSTALL
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.HP 12
.B \s-1USAGE\s0: load_package [\-a kernel_arch] 
.B [\-e full exec pathname]
.B [\-k full kvm pathname]
.br
Printed when
.B load_package
is invoked incorrectly.
.TP
.B "Too many options and/or option arguments."
More options and/or option arguments than allowed were used.
.TP
.B "echo 'Extraneous arguments on the command line.'"
An option had more option arguments than allowed.
Each option can have only one option argument.
