.\" @(#)nd.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH ND 8C "1 February 1985"
.SH NAME
nd \- network disk control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/nd
[
.I command
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "nd command"  ""  "\fLnd\fP \(em network disk control"
.IX  "network disk control"  ""  "network disk control \(em \fLnd\fP"
The
.I nd
command controls the network disk service of the kernel as described in
.IR nd (4P).
A single command may be given on the command line;
if none is given then the standard input is read for a list of commands.
Typically, the file
.I /etc/nd.local
is used for input.
Lines beginning with `#' are considered to be comments.
.LP
The available commands are:
.HP
.B user
.I "hostname hisunit mydev myoff mysize mylunit maxpkts"
.br
For the client 
.I hostname
transform incoming requests for 
.I hisunit
into server device 
.I mydev
at offset
.I myoff
and size 
.I mysize
sectors.
When responding to a read reequest, allow at most
.I maxpkts
packets to be outstanding at one time without a reply.
.RI /dev/ndl mylunit
provides a local name for this disk ``subpartition''.  If
.I mysize
is \-1, then this user unit is equivalent 
to the entire filesystem partition
.I mydev
(no subpartioning is done.)
If
.I mylunit
is \-1 then no local name is needed for this user unit;
this is usually the case with a swap unit,
or a unit represented by an entire filesystem.  If
.I hostname
is a numeric zero,
.I hisunit
refers to a public unit.  Since
.I nd
assists diskless clients in booting,
the files (or their equivalent YP maps)
.I /etc/hosts
and
.I /etc/ethers
are used to map the users' hostnames to their IP addresses
and ethernet addresses, respectively.
If
.I maxpkts
is not specified, the default value is 6.
.HP
.B version
.I versionnumber
.br
The
.B version
command gives the level of configuration of the server.
Occasionally the need arises to reorganize or
reload the diskless partitions.  Since the clients will rewrite
locally cached blocks, they must be kept from writing their
filesystems until they reboot.
Before such a reorganization occurs, the system manager should
warn diskless users to save files and halt their machines.
Modification of the partitions should occur with the disk server
off.  After modification is complete,
.I versionnumber
should be incremented to force users to reboot.
.HP
.B son
.br
Starts the network disk server.
This command should be issued after all
.BR user ,
.BR version ,
and
.B ether
commands.
.HP
.B soff
.br
Stops the disk server until a subsequent 
.B son
command.
.HP
.B clear
.br
Stops the disk server and clears all
.B user
and
.B ether
information.
.HP
.B serverat
.I hostname
.br
Systems with disks may use the
.B serverat
command to specify a disk server if they wish to use a network disk
in addition to their locally attached disk.
Even then, this command is only necessary
if they wish to use a public network disk,
or if they wish to change network disk servers.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/nd.local
/etc/hosts
/etc/ethers
.fi
.IX "files used by programs" "\fL/etc/nd.local\fR \(em \fLnd\fR command file"
.IX "files used by programs" "\fL/etc/hosts\fR \(em host ID map"
.IX "files used by programs" "\fL/etc/ethers\fR \(em host ethernet map"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nd(4P)
.SH BUGS
No sanity checking of disk partitions is done.
