.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)netstat.8c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 6.5 5/8/86
.TH NETSTAT 8 "31 December 1986"
.SH NAME
netstat \- show network status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B netstat
[
.B \-Aan
] [
.B \-f
.I address_family
] [
.I system
] [
.I core
]
.br
.B netstat
[
.B \-himnrs
] [
.B \-f
.I address_family
] [
.I system
] [
.I core
]
.br
.B netstat
[
.B \-n
] [
.B \-I
.I interface
]
.I interval
[
.I system
] [
.I core
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "netstat command"  ""  "\fLnetstat\fP \(em display network status"
.IX  "network status, display \(em \fLnetstat\fP"
.IX  "status of network"  display  ""  "display \(em \fLnetstat\fP"
.LP
The
.I netstat
command symbolically displays
the contents of various network-related data structures.
There are a number of output formats,
depending on the options for the information presented.
The first form of the command displays a list of active sockets for
each protocol.
The second form presents the contents of one of the other network
data structures according to the option selected.
Using the third form,
with an
.I interval
specified,
.I netstat
will continuously display the information regarding packet
traffic on the configured network interfaces.
The display formats are controlled by the options listed
below and are described in the
.SM DISPLAYS
section below.
.LP
The arguments
.I system
and
.I core
allow substitutes for the defaults ``/vmunix'' and ``/dev/kmem''.
.SH OPTIONS
The options have the following meaning.
.TP
.B \-A
With the default display,
show the address of any protocol control blocks associated with sockets;
used for debugging.
.TP
.B \-a
With the default display,
show the state of all sockets;
normally sockets used by server processes are not shown.
.TP
.BI \-f " address_family"
Limit statistics or address control block reports to those
of the specified
.IR address\ family .
The following address families
are recognized:
.IR inet ,
for
.BR AF_INET ,
'\"		\" XNS support not (yet) enabled
.ig
.IR ns ,
for
.BR AF_NS ,
..
'\"		\" end of commented out section
and
.IR unix ,
for
.BR AF_UNIX .
.TP
.B \-h
Show the state of the IMP host table.
This does not work in an environment where the IMP host tables do not exist.
.TP
.B \-i
Show the state of interfaces that have been auto-configured.
(Interfaces statically configured into a system,
but not located at boot time are not shown.)
.TP
.BI \-I " interface"
Show information only about this interface;
used with an
.I interval
as described below.
.TP
.B \-m
Show statistics recorded by the memory management routines.
(The network manages a private pool of memory buffers.)
.TP
.B \-n
Show network addresses as numbers.
(Normally
.I netstat
interprets addresses and attempts to display them symbolically.)
This option may be used with any of the display formats.
.TP
.B \-s
Show per-protocol statistics.
When used with the
.B \-r
option,
the
.B \-s
option displays routing statistics.
.TP
.B \-r
Show the routing tables.
When
.B \-s
is also present,
show routing statistics instead.
.TP
.B \-t
In the interface display,
replace queue length information with timer information.
.LP
In its second form of invocation
.I netstat
checks its options in the order
.BR \-m ,
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-h ,
and
.BR \-r
and presents a display for only one of these options.
.SH DISPLAYS
The default display,
for active sockets,
shows the local and remote addresses,
send and receive queue sizes (in bytes),
protocol,
and the internal state of the protocol.
Address formats are of the form ``host.port,''
or ``network.port'' if a socket's address specifies
a network but no specific host address.
When known,
the host and network addresses are displayed symbolically
according to the data bases
.I /etc/hosts
and
.IR /etc/networks ,
respectively.
If a symbolic name for an address is unknown,
or if the
.B \-n
option is specified,
the address is printed numerically,
according to the address family.
For more information regarding the Internet ``dot format,''
refer to
.IR inet (3N).
Unspecified,
or ``wildcard'',
addresses and ports appear as ``*''.
.LP
The possible state values for TCP sockets are as follows.
.RS
'\"	Let first paragraph lead the normal distance; then
'\"	close to half the normal lead for the rest of them.
.TP 15
.SM CLOSED
Closed: socket not being used
.nr Xx \n()Pu/2u
.PD \n(Xxu
.TP
.SM LISTEN
Listening for incoming connections
.TP
.SM SYN_SENT
Actively trying to establish connection
.TP
.SM SYN_RECEIVED
Initial synchronization of the connection
.TP
.SM ESTABLISHED
Connection has been established
.TP
.SM CLOSE_WAIT
Remote shut down, waiting for socket to close
.TP
.SM FIN_WAIT_1
Socket closed, shutting down connection
.TP
.SM CLOSING
Closed, then remote shutdown, awaiting acknowledgement
.TP
.SM LAST_ACK
Remote shut down, then closed, awaiting acknowledgement
.TP
.SM FIN_WAIT_2
Socket closed, waiting for shutdown from remote
.TP
.SM TIME_WAIT
Wait after close for remote shutdown retransmission
.PD
.RE
.LP
The interface display provides a table of cumulative
statistics regarding packets transferred, errors, and collisions.
The network addresses of the interface
and the maximum transmission unit (``mtu'') are also displayed.
.LP
The routing table display indicates the available routes and their status.
Each route consists of a destination host or network
and a gateway to use in forwarding packets.
The
.I flags
field shows
the state of the route (``U'' if ``up''),
whether the route is to a gateway (``G''),
and whether the route was created dynamically by a redirect (``D'').
Direct routes are created for each interface attached to the local host;
the gateway field for such entries shows the address of the outgoing interface.
The
.I refcnt
field gives the current number of active uses of the route.
Connection-oriented protocols normally hold on to a single route
for the duration of a connection
whereas connectionless protocols obtain a route while sending
to the same destination.
The
.I use
field provides a count of the number of packets
sent using that route.
The
.I interface
entry indicates the network
interface utilized for the route.
.LP
When
.I netstat
is invoked with an
.I interval
argument,
it displays a running count of statistics related to network interfaces.
This display consists of a column summarizing
information for all interfaces, and a column for the interface with
the most traffic since the system was last rebooted.
The most heavily travelled interface may be replaced
with another interface with the
.B \-I
option.
Every 24th line of the display contains a summary since the
system was last rebooted.
Subsequent lines of output show values accumulated over the preceding interval.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
iostat(8),
vmstat(8),
hosts(5),
networks(5),
protocols(5),
services(5),
trpt(8C)
.SH BUGS
The notion of errors is ill-defined.
Collisions mean something else for the IMP.
.LP
The kernel's tables can change while
.I netstat
is examining them, creating incorrect or partial displays.
