.TH PERFMON 1 "1 October 1987"
.\" @(#)perfmon.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.SH NAME
perfmon \- graphical display of general system statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B perfmon
.RI [ " statistic " "] .\|.\|."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "perfmon command"  ""  "\fLperfmon\fP \(em display performance statistics"
.IX  "performance monitoring"  ""  "performance monitoring \(em \fLperfmon\fP"
.B perfmon
provides a graphical display of the
system-wide performance statistics
and updates them approximately once a second.
It should be executed from a graphics tool inside the SunView system.
The time interval between updates can be adjusted by typing one of the
following characters while the mouse is in the graphics subwindow:
.TP
.B s
Increase the interval by 0.05 seconds (slower by a little).
.TP
.B S
Increase the interval by one second (slower by a lot).
.TP
.B f
Decrease the interval by 0.05 seconds (faster by a little).
.TP
.B F
Decrease the interval by one second (faster by a lot).
.TP
.B R
Reset the interval to the standard 1.05 seconds.
.LP
In addition, typing:
.TP
.BR H , " h " or " ?"
List the characters that
.B perfmon
is listening for.
.TP
.BR Q " or " q
Cease executing
.BR perfmon .
.LP
If no statistic argument is given,
.B perfmon
displays all statistics.
A tick is placed on the lines separating the graphs once every
fifteen seconds (due
to scheduling vagaries, these ticks may not be evenly spaced).
.LP
.B
Statistics
.LP
.TP
.B user
Percentage of total
.SM CPU
time spent in normal and low priority
user processes.
.TP
.B system
Percentage of total
.SM CPU
time attributed to system calls and
overhead.
.TP
.B idle
Percentage of total
.SM CPU
time spent idle.
.TP
.B free
Amount of available real memory (in Kbytes).
.TP
.B disk
Total number of disk transfers performed.
.TP
.B interrupts
Total number of interrupts serviced.
.TP
.B input
Total number of input packets received.
.TP
.B output
Total number of output packets transmitted.
.TP
.B collision
Total number of collisions between packets observed on the network.
.IP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR perfmeter (1),
.BR sunview (1),
.BR netstat (8),
.BR rstatd (8),
.BR vmstat (8)
.SH BUGS
.B perfmon
should use
.BR rstatd (8C).
