.\" @(#)postnews.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH POSTNEWS 1 "6 January 1984"
.UC
.SH NAME
postnews \- submit news articles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR postnews " [ "
.IR article " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "postnews command"  ""  "\fLpostnews\fP \(em submit news articles"
.IX  "submit news articles"  ""  "submit news articles \(em \fLpostnews\fP"
.IX  "network news"  "submit articles"  ""  "submit articles \(em \fLpostnews\fP"
.IX  news  "submit articles"  ""  "submit articles \(em \fLpostnews\fP"
.LP
.I Postnews
calls up the
.IR inews (1)
utility to submit news articles to
.SM USENET.
.I Postnews
prompts you for the title of the article, for the newsgroup, and for
the distribution.  The title of the article should be a phrase suggesting
the subject, so that persons reading the news can tell if they are interested
in the article.
.LP
If you omit the name of the newsgroup (by typing a carriage-return when
asked for the newsgroup), 
.I postnews
posts the article to
.IR general .
.LP
.I general
is read by everyone on the local machine.
Other possible newsgroups include, but are not limited to,
.BI btl . general,
read by all users at all Bell Labs sites on
.SM USENET,
.BI net . general,
read by all users at all sites on
.SM USENET,
and
.BI net . news ,
read by users interested in the network news on all sites.
There is often a local set of newsgroups, such as
.BI ucb . all ,
that circulate within a local set of machines.
In this case, 
.I ucb
newsgroups circulate among machines at the
University of California at Berkeley.
.LP
The distribution can be any valid list of newsgroup names,
and defaults to the same as the newsgroup.
If they are the same, the distribution is omitted from the
headers put into the editor buffer.
A distribution header is included in the headers of the article if given,
affecting where the article is distributed to.
.LP
After entering the title, newsgroup, and distribution,
.I postnews
calls up an editor program where you can compose the article.
.I Postnews
uses
.IR vi (1)
as the editor unless you have specified another editor via the
.SM $EDITOR
environment variable, in which case 
.I postnews
uses the editor specified there.
.LP
An initial set of headers containing the subject and newsgroups
will be placed in the editor, followed by a blank line.
The article should be appended to the buffer, after the blank line.
These headers can be changed, or additional headers added,
while in the editor, if desired.
.LP
Optionally, the article is read from the file specified by
.IR article .
.LP
For more sophisticated uses, such as posting news from a program, see
.IR inews (1).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mail(1),
checknews(1),
inews(1),
readnews(1).
