.TH PR 1  "23 September 1985"
.\" @(#)pr.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.SH NAME
pr \- prepare file(s) for printing, possibly in multiple columns
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pr
[
.BI \- n
] [
.BI \+ n
] [
.B \-h
.I string
] [
.BI \-w n
] [
.B \-f
] [
.BI \-l n
] [
.B \-t
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-s n
] [
.B \-m
] [ \fIfilename\fR ] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "pr command"  ""  "\fLpr\fP \(em prepare files for printing"
.IX  "prepare files for printing"  ""  "prepare files for printing \(em \fLpr\fP"
.IX  files  "prepare for printing"  files  "prepare files for printing \(em \fLpr\fP"
.IX  "multiple columns"  "print in"  ""  "print in \(em \fLpr\fP"
.IX  columns  "print in multiple"  ""  "print in multiple \(em \fLpr\fP"
.I pr
prepares one or more
.IR files 's
for printing.  The output is separated
into pages headed by a date, the name of the file or a specified header,
and the page number.
.I pr
prints its standard input if there are no
.I file
arguments.  Formfeed characters in the input files cause page breaks in
the output, as expected.
.LP
Inter-terminal messages via
.IR write
are forbidden during a
.IR pr .
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options apply to all following
.IR file 's
but may be reset between
.IR file 's:
.TP
.BI \- n
Produce
.IR n -column
output.  For example:
.RS
.nf
.in +.5i
.ta +.75i; +.75i; +.75;
.ft I
Print	of	in	
the	one	three	
lines	file	columns.
.fi
.in -.5i
.RE
This option overrides the
.B \-t
option (see below).
.TP
.BI + n
Begin printing with page
.IR  n .
.TP
\fB\-h\fP \fIstring\fP
Use
.I string
as a header for the page instead of the default header.
.TP
.BI \-w n
For purposes of multi-column output, take the width of the page to be
.I n
characters instead of the default 72.
.TP
.BI \-f
Use formfeeds instead of newlines to separate pages.
A formfeed is assumed to use up two blank lines at the top of a page.
Thus this option does not affect the effective page length.
.TP
.BI \-l n
Take the length of the page to be
.I n
lines instead of the default 66.
.TP
.B  \-t
Do not print the 5-line header or the 5-line trailer normally supplied for
each page.  Formfeed characters are not generated when this option is
used, even if the 
.B \-f
option was used.  The
.B \-t
option is intended for applications where the results should be directed
to a file for further processing.
.TP
.BI \-s c
Separate columns by the single character
.I c
instead of by the appropriate amount of white space.  A missing
.I c
is taken to be a tab.
.TP
.B  \-m
Print all
.IR file 's
simultaneously, each in one column, for example:
.RS
.nf
.in +.5i
.ft I
.ta +.75i; +.75i; +.75i
Print	Print	Print
the	the	third
lines	lines	file's
of 	of	lines
file	file	go
one.	two.	here.
.in -.5i
.fi
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Print a file called 
.I dreadnaught
on the printer \(em this is the simplest use of
.IR pr :
.RS
.nf
tutorial% \fBpr  dreadnought | lpr\fP
tutorial%
.fi
.RE
.LP
Produce three laminations of a file called 
.I ridings 
side by side in the output, with no headers or trailers, the results to
appear in the file called 
.IR Yorkshire :
.RS
.nf
tutorial% \fBpr  \-m \-t ridings ridings ridings > Yorkshire\fP
tutorial% 
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
/dev/tty?
to suspend messages.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cat(1), lpr(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
There are no diagnostics when
.I pr
is printing on a terminal.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The options described above interact with each other in strange and as
yet to be defined ways.
