.\" @(#)readnews.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH READNEWS 1 "7 March 1984"
.SH NAME
readnews \- read news articles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR readnews " [ " \-a
.IR date " ] [ "
.B \-n
.IR newsgroups " ] [ "
.B \-t
.IR titles " ] [ "
.BR \-lprxhfuM " ] [ "
.BR \-c " [ "
.IR mailer " ] ]"
.LP
.B "readnews \-s"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "readnews command"  ""  "\fLreadnews\fP \(em read news articles"
.IX  "read news articles"  ""  "read news articles \(em \fLreadnews\fP"
.IX  "network news"  "read articles"  ""  "read articles \(em \fLreadnews\fP"
.IX  news  "read articles"  ""  "read articles \(em \fLreadnews\fP"
.I Readnews
without argument displays unread articles.
.LP
.B readnews \-s
displays the newsgroup subscription list.
.LP
.I Readnews
maintains a
.BI . newsrc
file in your home directory that specifies all news articles already read.
.BI . newsrc
is updated at the end of each news reading session in which the
.BR \-x " or " \-l
options weren't specified.  If the
.SM NEWSRC
environment variable
is present, it should be the path name of a file to be used in place of
.BI . newsrc.
.LP
An options line may be placed in the
.BI . newsrc
file.  The options line starts with the word
.B options
(left justified) followed by the list of standard options just as
they would be typed on the
.I readnews
command line.  The list of options may include: the
.B \-n
flag along with a newsgroup list; a favorite interface to use for
reading the news; and/or the
.B \-r
or
.B \-t
flag.  Continuation lines are specified by following lines
beginning with a space or tab character.
Similarly, options can be specified in the
.SM NEWSOPTS
environment parameter.  Options on the command
line override options in the
.BI . newsrc
file and options in the
.BI . newsrc
file override options in the
.SM NEWSOPTS
environment parameter.
.LP
When you use the reply command of the
.IR mail (1)
or 
.IR /bin/mail (1)
interfaces,
.I readnews
uses the
.SM MAILER
environment parameter to determine which mailer to use.  The default is usually
.IR mail .
.LP
You can specify a particular paging program
for paging through articles.  The
.SM PAGER
environment parameter should be set to the name of
the paging program.  The name of the article is referenced with
a `%', as in the
.B \-c
option.  If no `%' is present, the article is piped to the program.
Paging may be disabled by setting
.SM PAGER
to a null value.
.SH OPTIONS
Some of the option flags determine which of the several interfaces you
can use for reading your news.  The news system has its own interface
which is used if no other choice is made, otherwise one of
these options can be used:
.TP
.B \-M
An interface to
.IR mail (1).
.TP
.B \-c
A
.IR /bin/mail (1)\-like
interface.
.TP
.BI "\-c " `mailer'
All selected articles written to a temporary file.  Then the mailer is
invoked.  The name of the temporary file is referenced with a `%'.
Thus, `mail \-f %' will invoke mail on a temporary file consisting of all
selected messages.
.LP
Other options govern the behavior of
.I readnews
itself, as follows:
.TP
.B \-p
Send all selected articles to the standard output with no questions asked.
.TP
.B \-l
Display only the titles.  Do not update the
.BI . newsrc
file.
.TP
.B \-r
display the articles in reverse order.
.TP
.B \-f
Do not display any followup article
.TP
.B \-h
Display articles in a less verbose format (intended for terminals
running at 300 baud).
.TP
.B \-u
Update the
.BI . newsrc
file every 5 minutes, in case of an unreliable system.  Note that if the
.BI . newsrc
file is updated, the
.B x
command will not restore it to its original contents.
.LP
The following flags determine the selection of articles:
.TP
.BI "\-n " newsgroups
Select all articles that belong to
.IR newsgroups .
.TP
.BI "\-t " titles
Select all articles whose titles contain one of the strings specified by
.IR titles .
.TP
.BI "\-a " "\fR[\fP date \fR]\fP"
Select all articles that were posted past the given
.I date
(in
.IR mm/dd
format).
.TP
.B \-x
Ignore
.BI . newsrc
file.  That is, select articles that have already been read as well as new ones.
.SH "COMMANDS"
.LP
This section lists the commands you can type to the
.I readnews
and
.I /bin/mail
interface prompts.  The
.I readnews
interface suggests some common commands in brackets.
Just typing carriage-return is the same as typing the first command.
For example, `[ynq]' means that the commands `y' (yes), `n' (no),
and `q' (quit) are common responses, and that `y' is the default.
Here are the commands and their meanings:
.IP y
Yes \(em  displays current article and goes on to next.
.IP n
No \(em  goes on to next article without displaying current one.
In the
.I /bin/mail
interface, this means `go on to the next article',
which has the same effect as `y' or just typing carriage-return.
.IP q
Quit \(em the
.BI . newsrc
file is updated if \-l or \-x were not on the command line.
.IP c
Cancel the article \(em only the author or the super user can do this.
.IP r
Reply \(em reply to article's author via mail.
.I Readnews
calls up your
.SM EDITOR
with a header specifying
To, Subject, and References lines taken from the message.
You may change or add headers, as appropriate.
You add the text of the reply after the blank line, and then exit
the editor.  The resulting message is mailed to the author of the article.
.IP rd
Reply directly \(em
.I readnews
calls up the
.I mail
program (or the program specified in the
.SM $MAILER
environment variable) so that you can reply to the author.
Type the text of the reply and then control-D.
.IP "f [\fItitle\fP]"
Submit a follow up article.
Normally you should leave off the title, since the system generates
one for you.
.I Readnews
calls up your
.SM EDITOR
so that you can compose the text of the followup.
.IP "fd"
Followup directly, without edited headers.  This is like
.IR f ,
but the headers of the article are not included in the editor buffer.
.IP "N [\fInewsgroup\fP]"
Go to the next newsgroup or named
.IR newsgroup .
.IP "s [\fIfile\fP]"
Save \(em the article is appended to the named
.IR file .
The default filename is
.IR Articles .
If the first character of the filename is `|',
the rest of the filename is taken as the name of a program,
which is executed with the text of the article as standard input.
If the first character of the filename is `/', it is
taken as a full path name of a file.  If the
.SM $NEWSBOX
environment variable is set to a full path name,
and the filename contains no `/', the file is saved in
.SM $NEWSBOX,
otherwise, it is saved relative to
.SM $HOME.
.IP #
Report the name and size of the newsgroup.
.IP e
Erase \(em forget that this article was read.
.IP h
Print a more verbose header.
.IP H
Print a very verbose header, containing all known information about the article.
.IP U
Unsubscribe from this newsgroup.  Also goes on to the next newsgroup.
.IP d
Read a digest.  Breaks up a digest into separate articles
so you can read and reply to each piece.
.IP D [\fInumber\fP]
Decrypt \(em invokes a Caesar decoding program on the body of the message.
This is used to decrypt rotated jokes posted to net.jokes.
Such jokes are usually obscene or otherwise offensive to some
groups of people, and so are rotated to avoid accidental
decryption by people who would be offended.
The title of the joke should indicate the nature of the problem,
enabling people to decide whether to decrypt it or not.
.IP
Normally the Caesar program does a character frequency count on
each line of the article separately, so that lines which are not
rotated will be shown in plain text.
This works well unless the line is short, in which case it sometimes
gets the wrong rotation.  An explicit
.I number
rotation (usually 13) may be given to force a particular shift.
.IP v
Print the current version of the news software.
.IP !
Shell escape.
.IP \fInumber\fP
Go to \fInumber\fP.
.IP +[\fIn\fP]
Skip n articles.
The articles skipped are recorded as `unread' and will be
offered to you again the next time you read news.
.IP \-
Go back to last article.
This is a toggle, typing it twice returns you to the original article.
.IP x
Exit \(em like quit except that
.BI . newsrc
is not updated.
.IP "X \fIsystem\fP"
Transmit article to the named
.IR system .
.LP
The
c, f, fd, r, rd, e, h, H, and s commands
can be followed by \-'s to refer to the previous article.
Thus, when replying to an article using the
.I readnews
interface, you should normally type `r\-' (or `re-') since by the
time you enter a command, you are being offered the next article.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B readnews
Read all unread articles using the
.IR readnews (1)
interface.  The
.BI . newsrc
file is updated at the end of the session.
.TP
.B readnews \-c "ed %" \-l
Use the
.IR ed (1)
text editor on a file containing the titles of all unread articles.  The
.BI . newsrc
file is
.B not
updated at the end of the session.
.TP
.B readnews \-n all !fa.all \-M \-r
Read all unread articles except articles whose newsgroups begin with
IB fa .
via
.IR mail (1)
in reverse order.  The
.BI . newsrc
file is updated at the end of the session.
.TP
.B "readnews \-p \-n all \-a last thursday"
Print every unread article since last Thursday.  The
.BI . newsrc
file is
updated at the end of the session.
.TP
.B "readnews \-p > /dev/null &"
Discard all unread news.
This is useful after returning from a long trip.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 35
.RI /usr/spool/news/ newsgroup / number
News articles
.TP 35
/usr/lib/news/active
Active newsgroups and numbers of articles
.TP 35
/usr/lib/news/help
Help file for
.IR readnews (1)
interface
.TP 35
~/.newsrc
Options and list of previously read articles
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
checknews(1),
inews(1),
sendnews(8),
recnews(8),
uurec(8),
mail(1),
news(5),
newsrc(5)
