.\"	@(#)regcmp.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2 6.2 9/2/83
.TH REGCMP 1 "17 April 1986"
.SH NAME
regcmp \- regular expression compile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/regcmp
[
.B \-
]
.I files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IP Note: 
Optional Software (System V Option). 
Refer to 
.I Installing \s-2UNIX\s0 on the Sun Workstation  
for information on how to install this command. 
.LP
.IR regcmp ,
in most cases, precludes
the need
for calling
.IR regcmp (3X)
from
.B C 
programs.  This saves on both execution time and program size.
The command
.I regcmp
compiles the regular expressions in
.I file
and places the output in
.IB file .i\fR.\fP
If the \fB\-\fP
option is used, the output will be placed in
.IB file .c\fR.\fP
The format of entries in
.I file
is a name 
.RB ( C
variable) followed by one or more blanks followed by
a regular expression enclosed in double quotes.  The output of
.I regcmp
is
.B C 
source code.  Compiled regular expressions are represented as
.B "extern char"
vectors.
.IB file .i
files may thus be
.I included
into
.B C 
programs, or
.IB file .c
files may be compiled and later loaded.  In the
.B C 
program using
.I regcmp
output,
.IR regex ( abc , line )
will apply the regular expression named
.I abc
to
.IR line .
Diagnostics are self-explanatory.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP "\w'telno\ \ \ \ 'u"
name
"([A\-Za\-z][A\-Za\-z0\-9\_]\(**)$0"
.TP
telno
"\\({0,1}([2\-9][01][1\-9])$0\\){0,1} \(**"
.br
"([2\-9][0\-9]{2})$1[ \-]{0,1}"
.br
"([0\-9]{4})$2"
.TP
In the 
.B C 
program that uses the \fIregcmp\fP output,
.PP
.RS
regex(telno, line, area, exch, rest)
.RE
.PP
will apply the regular expression named \fItelno\fP to \fIline\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
regcmp(3X)
