.\" @(#)rmtab.5 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH RMTAB 5 "19 October 1987"
.SH NAME
rmtab \- local file system mount statistics
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rmtab file"  ""  "\fLrmtab\fP \(em remote mounted file system table"
.LP
.B rmtab
resides in directory
.B /etc
and contains a record of all clients
that have done remote mounts of file systems
from this machine.  Whenever a remote
.BR mount (8)
is done, an entry is made in the
.B rmtab
file of the machine serving up that file system.
.B umount
removes entries, if of a remotely mounted file system.
.B umount \-a
broadcasts to all servers, and informs
them that they should remove all entries from
.B rmtab
created by the sender of the broadcast message.
By placing a
.B umount \-a
command in
.BR /etc/rc.boot ,
.B rmtab
tables can be purged of entries made by a crashed host,
which upon rebooting did not remount
the same file systems it had before.
The table is a series of lines of the form
.IP
.IB hostname : directory
.LP
This table is used only to preserve
information between crashes, and is read only by
.BR mountd (8)
when it starts up.
.B mountd
keeps an in-core table,
which it uses to handle requests from programs like
.BR showmount (1)
and
.BR shutdown (8).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/rmtab
.TP
.B /etc/rc.boot
.PD
.IX "files used by programs" "\fL/etc/rmtab\fR \(em list of hosts with local filesystems mounted"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR showmount (1),
.BR mountd (8),
.BR mount (8),
.BR shutdown (8)
.SH BUGS
Although the
.B rmtab
table is close to the truth,
it is not always 100% accurate.
