.\" @(#)setquota.2 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH SETQUOTA 2 "19 August 1985"
.SH NAME
setquota \- enable/disable quotas on a file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B setquota(special, file)
.B char *special, *file;
.fi
.IX  setquota  ""  \fLsetquota\fP
.IX  "quotas for file system"  ""  "quotas for file system \(em \fLsetquota\fP"
.IX  "file system"  setquota  ""  \fLsetquota\fP
.IX  "resource controls"  "file system quotas setquota"  ""  "file system quotas \(em \fLsetquota\fP"
.IX  "enable file system quotas setquota"  ""  "enable file system quotas \(em \fLsetquota\fP"
.IX  "disable file system quotas setquota"  ""  "disable file system quotas \(em \fLsetquota\fP"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Disc quotas are enabled or disabled with the
.I setquota
call.
.I Special
indicates a block special device on which a mounted file system exists.
If
.I file
is nonzero, it specifies a file in that
file system from which to take the quotas.  If
.I file
is 0, then quotas are disabled on the file system.
The quota file must exist; it is normally created with the 
.IR quotacheck (8)
program.
.LP
Only the super-user may turn quotas on or off.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
quota(2), quotacheck(8), quotaon(8)
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
A 0 return value indicates a successful call.  A value
of \-1 is returned when an error occurs and 
.I errno
is set to indicate the reason for failure.
.SH ERRORS
.I Setquota
will fail when one of the following occurs:
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller is not the super-user.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
.I Special
does not exist.
.TP 15
[ENOTBLK]
.I Special
is not a block device.
.TP 15
[ENXIO]
The major device number of 
.I special
is out of range (this indicates no device driver exists
for the associated hardware).
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix in
.I file
is not a directory.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
.I File
resides on a file system different from
.IR special .
.TP 15
[EACCES]
.I File
is not a plain file.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
The pathname was too long.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Special
or
.I file
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.SH BUGS
The error codes are in a state of disarray; too many errors
appear to the caller as one value.
