.\" @(#)setup_exec.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SETUP_EXEC 8 "25 September 1987"
.SH NAME
setup_exec \- install architecture-dependent executables on a heterogeneous file server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/install/setup_exec
.if n .br
.I arch
.I execpath
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "setup_exec command" "" "\fLsetup_exec\fP command"
.LP
.B setup_exec
installs architecture-dependent executables from
either from a local tape drive or a remote host.
It is used to
convert a standalone system or homogeneous file server to a
heterogeneous file server.
.B setup_exec
is a forms-based utility that can be invoked directly, but it is
also used by
.BR suninstall (8).
It can only be invoked by the super-user.
.LP
The
.I arch
argument specifies the machine archictecture to install
(for instance,
.BR sun4 ,
.BR sun3 .\|.\|.\|).
When run with no arguments,
.B setup_exec
displays a usage line that includes the proper format of the 
.I arch
argument for each supported architecture.
.I execpath
is the full pathname of the directory in which to install the
executables.
When
.B setup_exec
is done, the
.I execpath
directory is ready to mount as
.B /usr
by the heterogeneous server's
.SM NFS
clients of the indicated
.IR arch .
.LP
.B setup_exec
also updates the
.B /etc/exports
file (see
.BR exportfs (8))
to export the executable directories it has installed.
The system administrator should verify this file to make sure
that the directory has been exported to the correct groups.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
This example shows how to install a directory of
executables for Sun-4 system clients running 4.0.
.IP
.B example# setup_exec sun4 /exports/execs/sun4/4.0
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 32
.B /etc/hosts
hosts database
.TP
.B /etc/ethers
database of hostnames and Ethernet addresses
.TP
.B /etc/exports
database of exported file systems
.TP
.BI /usr/etc/install/files/extractlist. arch
record of extracted categories for the indicated architecture
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR exportfs (8),
.BR setup_client (8),
.BR suninstall (8)
.LP
.TX INSTALL
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B "incorrect number of arguments"
Check the number and the order of arguments.
.TP
.B "invalid architecture type \*(lq\fIarch\fP\*(rq."
You supplied a value for
.I arch
that is not supported.
.TP
.B "invalid tape drive type \*(lq\fIdrive\fP\*(rq."
Valid tape drive types are
.B local
and
.BR remote .
.TP
.B "invalid tape type \*(lq\fItape\fP\*(rq."
Valid tape types are
.BR ar ,
.BR st ,
.BR mt ,
and
.BR xt .
.TP
.B "can't reach tapehost \*(lq\fItapehost\fR\*(rq."
The IP address of
.I tapehost
is not in the hosts database, that is,
the hosts
.SM YP
database if the 
.SM YP
name service is running, or the
.B /etc/hosts
file otherwise.
.TP
.B "Load release tape \fIn\fP"
Mount the release tape specified on the screen and type
.SM RETURN
to continue.
