.\" @(#)setup_client.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH SETUP_CLIENT 8 "14 December 1987"
.SH NAME
setup_client \- create or remove an NFS client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/install/script/setup_client
.if n .br
.I op
.I clientname
.I yp_type
.I swapsize
.if n .ti +0.5i
.I rootpath
.I swappath
.if t .ti +.5i
.if n .ti +0.5i
.I homepath
.I execpath
.I kvmpath
.I arch
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "setup_client command" "" "\fLsetup_client\fP command"
.LP
.B setup_client
adds an
.SM NFS
client to a server, or removes one.
It can only be run by the super-user.
It is also used by
.BR suninstall (8).
.LP
The
.I op
argument indicates which operation to perform; it can be either
.B add
or
.BR remove ,
to indicate whether to add or remove a client.
.I clientname
is the hostname of the client.
.I yp_type
indicates the type of 
.SM YP
server or service to provide to the
client, if any; it can be one of
.BR master ,
.BR slave ,
.BR client
or
.BR none .
.I swapsize
is the number of bytes reserved for client's swap
file.
.I rootpath
is the pathname of parent directory in which various client root
directories reside; 
.IB rootpath / clientname
is the pathname of the client's root directory.
.I swappath
is the pathname of parent directory in which various client swap files
reside;  
.IB swappath / clientname
is the pathname of the client's swap file.
.I homepath
is the pathname of the (parent) directory in which the various home 
directories are to reside; it is the pathname of the directory
that the client is to mount as
.BR /home .
.I execpath
is the full pathname of the directory in which the
executables for the architecture specified by the
.I arch
argument.
This is the directory that the client mounts as
.BR /usr .
.I arch 
specifies the client's architecture (for instance, 
.BR sun4 ,
.BR sun3 .\|.\|.).
.B setup_client
with no arguments displays a usage message that includes the proper 
.I arch
argument for each supported architecture.
.SH USAGE
.LP
Before you add or remove a client, you must first make sure
that the Internet and Ethernet addresses for
.I clientname
are listed in the 
.SM YP
hosts database (if the server is running the 
\s-1YP\s0 name service), or
in the server's
.B /etc/hosts
and
.B /etc/ethers
databases, respectively (otherwise).
Then, run
.B setup_client
with the
.B add
or
.B remove
operation.
When adding a client, you must then bootstrap that client machine.
.LP
You cannot add a client to a server that does not
support the specified architecture.
The executable directory for that client's architecture
must be present on the server.
If this file is absent, an error
results.
.LP
.B setup_client
updates the
.B /etc/bootparams
file.
If the server is a 
.SM YP 
master, it updates local 
.SM YP
database.
It
.I does not
propagate the local update to other 
.SM YP 
servers.
To propagate the
updates, use the following commands:
.RS
.nf
.ft B
example# cd /var/yp
example# make
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
If the server is running the
.SM YP 
name service but is not a 
.SM YP 
master,
.BR setup_client
issues a warning to indicate that the database is out of date.
.LP
When
.I arch
is given as
.BR sun2 ,
.B suninstall
issues a reminder to run the
.B /usr/etc/ndbootd
daemon for booting Sun-2 systems.
.LP
.B setup_client
creates
.IB swappath / clientname
with the
.IR size ,
(number of bytes) you specify.
You can append one of
.B K
or
.B k
to indicate kilobytes,
.B M
or
.B m
to indicate megabytes, or
.B B
or
.B b
to indicate 512-byte blocks,
to
.IR size .
Otherwise,
.I size
is taken to indicate an exact byte count.
.LP
.B suninstall
updates the
.B /etc/exports
file to allow root access to each client's root file system.
It exports the client's swap and dump partitions only to the client.
Note: the system administrator should verify that the
.B /etc/exports
file contains correct information, and that file systems
are exported to the correct users and groups.
Refer to
.BR exportfs (8)
for details on exporting file systems.
.br
.ne 10
.SH EXAMPLES
This example shows how to add a Sun-4 system
.SM NFS
client to a server.
.RS
.nf
.sp .5v
.B
example# setup_client add frodo client 16M /exports/roots /exports/swaps /exports/dumps /home \e
.B /exports/execs/sun4/4.0 sun4
.fi
.RE
.LP
To remove this client, you would merely substitute
.B remove
for
.B add
in the above example.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.B /etc/hosts
.TP
.B /etc/ethers
.TP
.B /usr/etc/ndbootd
.TP
.B /etc/bootparams
.TP
.B /etc/exports
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR exportfs (8),
.BR setup_exec (8)
.BR suninstall (8)
.LP
.TX INSTALL
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B "incorrect number of arguments"
Check number and order of the arguments.
.TP
.B "must be run as root (super-user)."
You must be root to use
.BR setup_client .
.TP
.B "invalid operation type ``\fIxx\fP''."
Valid operations are
.B add
and
.BR remove .
.TP
.B "\s-1ATTENTION\s0: \fIxxxxxxxx\fP \-> boot.sun\fI?\fP not created."
(Sun-3 systems only.)  A symbolic link can not be created
because the boot file does not exist.
.\" under
.\" .BR /tftpboot .
.TP
.B "\s-1ATTENTION\s0: \fIxxxxxxxx\fP.SUN\fI?\fP \-> boot.sun\fI?\fP not created."
(Other than Sun-3 systems.)  A symbolic link can not be created
because the boot file does not exist.
.ie n \{
.PD 0
.LP
.B
\s-1ATTENTION\s0: /usr/etc/ndbootd needs to be running on server before bringing up ``\fIclient\fP''.
.IP
\}
.el \{
.TP
.B "\s-1ATTENTION\s0: /usr/etc/ndbootd needs to be running on server before bringing up ``\fIclient\fP''."
\}
The Sun-2 system boot daemon must be running in order to bootstrap a
Sun-2 system.
.PD
