.\" @(#)sqz.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH SQZ 8 "06 April 1988"
.SH NAME
sqz \- reduce available physical memory pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sqz
[
.B \-f
.I device
]
[
.I request
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B sqz
is a command which works in conjunction with the
.BR sqz (4S)
driver to reduce the number of physical
memory pages available for any use (system or user).  See
.BR sqz (4S)
for details on intent and implementation.
.LP
If invoked without a request,
.B sqz
drops into an interactive mode,
in which it prompts for and processes requests.
When invoked with a request,
.B sqz
processes the request; it then pauses indefinitely
if a valid hold request was executed,
otherwise, it exits immediately.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-f " device
Set the name of the device to be opened to
.IR device .
The device defaults to
.BR /dev/sqz0 .
.LP
Valid
.IR request s
and their corresponding actions follow:
.TP
.BR ? " or " help
Provide list of requests and descriptions.
.TP
.BI hold number\fR[\fPscale\fR]
Hold a specified number of bytes, rounded up to full pages.
.IR scale ,
which can be specified in upper or lower case,
is one of
.B M
(meg),
.B K
(kilo),
.B B
(bytes), or
.B P
(pages).
Note:
.RB ` "hold 3" '
will be interpretted as
.RB ` "hold 3 bytes" ',
which is rounded up to one page.  Use
.RB ` "hold 3p" '
to hold 3 pages.  Unlike the
.B sqz (4S)
driver, if many pages are requested,
they are allocated a little at a time, in order to avoid deadlock.
.TP
.B free
Free all held pages.
.TP
.B status
Report number of pages (and kilobytes) held locally and globally.
.TP
.B stop
Suspend the program (and return to
.BR csh (1).
Keep pages held.
.TP
.B pause
Pause indefinitely without returning.  Keep pages held.
.TP
.BR exit " or " quit
Exit the program.  Release held pages.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/sqz*
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR csh (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR sqz (4S),
.BR sqzpage (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
The
.B stop
request only behaves properly when
.B sqz
is run from a process which notices stopped children.
So, for example
.RB ` "sqz stop" '
will work well when
.B sqz
is invoked from
.BR csh (1),
but
.B sqz
will appear to hang when invoked from
.BR sh (1).
