.\" @(#)sqz.4s 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH SQZ 4S "01 April 1988"
.SH NAME
sqz \- driver to reduce available physical memory pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pseudo-device
.BI sqz n
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B sqz
is an optional driver used to reduce the number of physical
memory pages available for any use (system or user).
It is intended to approximate
the behavior of a system with less physical memory.
Alternatives are to patch the kernel variable
.B physmem
in
.B /vmunix
and reboot, or power down the system and remove memory boards.
.LP
Each minor device corresponds to a separate device
which can independently reserve pages.
Each device only supports exclusive open; when the device is closed,
all the pages associated with it are returned to the system.
.SH IOCTLS
.LP
.B sqz
handles the following ioctl's, defined in
.BR <sun/sqz.h> :
.TP
.SB SQZSET
Requests a specified number of pages to be allocated.  If fewer pages
are requested than are currently allocated, the excess pages are
returned to the system.  If more pages are requested than are currently
allocated, the balance is atomically allocated.  Note: the
allocation is atomic, and if more pages are required than are
on the freelist,
.B sqz
will sleep until that many pages are available;
hence, this ioctl can fail to complete if too many additional
pages are requested at once.
.TP
.SB SQZGET
Fills in the following struct with the number of pages in each
category:
.RS
.RS
.sp .5v
.ft B
.nf
struct sqz_status {
	int count;	/* allocated by this sqz device */
	int total;	/* allocated by all sqz devices */
};
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/sqz*
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ioctl (4),
.BR sqz (8)
