.\" @(#)time.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH TIME 1  "23 September 1985"
.SH NAME
time \- time a command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B time
[ \fIcommand\fR ]
.IX  "time command"  ""  "\fLtime\fP \(em time command"
.IX  "performance monitoring"  time  ""  "\fLtime\fP \(em time command"
.IX  "programming tools"  time  ""  "\fLtime\fP \(em time command"
.SH DESCRIPTION
There are two distinct versions of
.IR time :
it is built in to the C-shell, and is an executable program available in
.I /bin/time
when using the Bourne shell.
In both cases, times are displayed on the diagnostic output stream.
.LP
In the case of the C-shell, a
.I time
command with no
.I command
argument simply displays a summary of time used by this shell and its children.
When arguments are given the specified simple
.I command
is timed and the C-shell displays a time summary as described in csh(1).
.LP
The
.I time
command in `/bin/time' times the given
.IR command ,
which must be specified, that is, 
.I command
is not optional as it is in the C-shell's timing facility.  When the
command is complete, 
.I time
displays the elapsed time during the command, the time
spent in the system, and the time spent in execution of the command.
Times are reported in seconds.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The two examples here show the differences between the \fIcsh\fP version of 
.I time
and the version in
.IR /bin/time .
The example assumes that \fIcsh\fP is the shell in use.
.RS
.nf
angel% \fBtime wc /usr/man/man1/csh.1\fP
    1876   11223   65895 /usr/man/man1/csh.1
2.7u 0.9s 0:03 91% 3+5k 19+2io 1pf+0w
angel% \fB/bin/time wc /usr/man/man1/csh.1\fP
    1876   11223   65895 /usr/man/man1/csh.1
        4.3 real         2.7 user         1.0 sys  
angel%
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
csh(1)
.SH BUGS
Elapsed time is accurate to the second, while the CPU times are measured
to the 50th second.  Thus the sum of the CPU times can be up to a second larger
than the elapsed time.
