.\" @(#)tmpnam.3c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH TMPNAM 3C "27 February 1985"
.SH NAME
tmpnam \- create a name for a temporary file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <stdio.h>
.sp .5v
char *tmpnam(s)
char *s;
.IX  "create name for temporary file"  ""  "create name for temporary file \(em \fLtmpnam\fP"
.IX  "make name for temporary file"  ""  "make name for temporary file \(em \fLtmpnam\fP"
.IX  "temporary file"  "create name for"  ""  "create name for \(em \fLtmpnam\fP"
.IX  file  "create temporary name"  file  "create temporary name \(em \fLtmpnam\fP"
.IX  "tmpnam function"  ""  "\fLtmpnam\fP \(em make temporary file name"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This routine is included for System V compatibility.
.LP
.I Tmpnam
generates a file name that can safely be used for a temprary file.
If (int)\fIs\fP is zero,
.I tmpnam
leaves its result in an internal static area and returns a pointer
to that area.  The next call to
.I tmpnam
will destroy the contents of the area.
If (int)\fIs\fP is nonzero,
.I s
is assumed to be the address of an array of at least
.B L_tmpnam
bytes;
.I tmpnam
places its result in that array and returns
.I s
as its value.
.LP
.I Tmpnam
generates a different file name each time it is called.
.LP
Files created using
.I tmpnam
and either
.I fopen
or
.I creat
are only temporary in the sense that they reside in a directory intended for
temporary use, and their names are unique.  It is the user's responsibility
to use
.IR unlink (2)
to remove the file when its use is ended.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
creat(2), unlink(2), mktemp(3), fopen(3S)
.SH BUGS
If called more than 17,576 times in a single process,
.I tmpnam
will start recycling previously used names.
.LP
Between the time a file name is created and the file is opened,
it is possible for some other process to create a file with the same
name.  This can never happen if that other process is using
.I tmpnam
or
.I mktemp,
and the file names are chosen so as to render duplication by other
means unlikely.
