.\" @(#)tput.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5
.TH TPUT 1V "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
tput \- query terminfo database
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B /usr/5bin/tput
[
.BI -T type
]
.I capname
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.IX "System V commands" "\fLtput\fR"
.IX tput "" "\fLtput\fR \(em System V terminal info database query"
.LP
Note:
Optional Software (System V Option).
Refer to
.I Installing \s-1UNIX\s0 on the Sun Workstation
for information on how to install this command.
.LP
.B tput
uses the
.BR terminfo (5)
database to make terminal-dependent
capabilities and information available to
the shell.
.B tput
outputs a string if the attribute
.IB ( cap ability " name" )
is of type string, or an integer if the attribute is of type integer.
If the attribute is of type boolean, tput simply sets the exit code
(0 for
.SM TRUE\s0,
1 for
.SM FALSE\s0),
and does no output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -T type
Indicate the type of terminal.
Normally this flag is unnecessary, as the default is taken from the
environment variable
.B
.SM $TERM\s0\fP.
.LP
.TP
.I capname
Indicate the attribute from the
.B terminfo
database.
See
.BR terminfo (5).
.LP
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 10
.B "tput clear"
Echo clear-screen sequence for the current terminal.
.TP
.B "tput cols"
Print the number of columns for the current terminal.
.TP
.B "tput -T450 cols"
Print the number of columns for the 450 terminal.
.TP
.B "bold=`tput smso`"
Set shell variable ``bold'' to stand-out mode
sequence for current terminal.
This might be followed by a prompt:
.RS
.IP
.B echo "${bold}Please type in your name: \\c"
.RE
.TP
.B "tput hc"
Set exit code to indicate if current terminal is a hardcopy terminal.
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/5lib/terminfo/?/*
terminal descriptor files
.TP
.B /usr/5include/term.h
definition files
.TP
.B /usr/5include/curses.h
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR stty (1),
.BR terminfo (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B tput
prints error messages and returns the following error codes on error:
.in +6
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-1
Usage error.
.TP
.B \-2
Bad terminal type.
.TP
.B \-3
Bad capname.
.LP
In addition, if a capname is requested
for a terminal that has no value for
that capname (for instance,
.RB ` "tput -T450 lines" '),
.B \-1
is printed.
