.\" @(#)traffic.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH TRAFFIC 1 "28 Aug 1985"
.SH NAME
traffic \- graphical display of ethernet traffic
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B traffic
[
.B \-h  
.I host
] [
.B \-s  
.I subwindows
]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Traffic
graphically displays ethernet traffic.  It gets statistics from
.IR etherd(8c),
running on machine \fIhost\fP.  The tool is divided into subwindows,
each giving a different view of network traffic.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-h\fI host\fR"
Specify a host from which to get statistics.
The default value of \fIhost\fP is the machine that
.IR traffic
is running on. 
.IP "\fB\-s\fI subwindows\fR
Specify the number of subwindows to display initially.  
The default value of \fIsubwindows\fP is 1.
.SH SUBWINDOWS
.LP
To the right of each subwindow is a panel that selects what
the subwindow is viewing.  When \fISize\fP is checked,
than the size distribution of packets is displayed.  \fIProto\fP
is for protocol, \fISrc\fP is for source of packet, and \fIDst\fP
is for destination of packet.  Since it is not possible to
show all possible sources, when \fISrc\fP is selected, only the
8 highest sources are displayed (and similarly for \fIDst\fP).
.LP
For each of these choices, the distribution is displayed by 
a histogram.  The panel above each subwindow controls characteristics
of the histograms.  At the left of the panel is a shaded square,
corresponding to one of the two shades of bars in the histogram.
You can switch the shade by either clicking on the square with the
left button, or bringing up a menu over the square with the right mouse
button.
When the light colored square is visible, then
the slider in the center of the panel controls how often the
light colored bars are updated.  When the dark square is visible,
then the slider refers to the dark bars of the histogram.  To the
right of the slider is a choice of \fIAbs\fP versus \fIRel\fP.
This selects whether the height of the histogram is \fIAbsolute\fP
in packets per second, or \fIRelative\fP in percent of total packets
on the ethernet.  Next in the panel are three small horizontal bars.
When selected (that is, when a check mark appears to the left of
the three bars),
a horizontal grid appears on the histogram.
Finally the button marked \fIDelete Me\fP will delete the subwindow.
.LP
The right hand panel also has a choice for \fILoad\fP.  Load is
represented as a strip chart, rather than a histogram.
The maximum value of the
graph represents a load of 100%, that is 10 megabits per second
on the ethernet.  When \fILoad\fP is selected, there is only one
slider, and no \fIRel\fP versus \fIAbs\fP choice.
.LP
At the very top of the tool is a panel that contains filters, as
well as a \fISplit\fP button that splits the tool and creates
a new subwindow, and a \fIQuit\fP button that exits the tool.
The filters apply to all the subwindows.  When a filter is selected,
a check mark appears to the left of the word \fIFilter\fP.
There can be
more than one filter active at the same time.
The meaning of each filter is as follows.  \fISrc\fP is 
a host or net, which can be specified either by name or address
(similarlry for \fIDst\fP).  \fIProto\fP is an ip protocol, and
can either be a name (such as \fIudp\fP, \fIicmp\fP) or a number.
\fILnth\fP is either a packet length, or a range of lengths
separated by a dash.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
etherd(8c)
.SH BUGS
If multiple copies of \fItraffic\fP are using the same copy of
\fIetherd\fP, and one of them invokes a filter, then all the copies
of \fItraffic\fP will be filtered.
