.\" @(#)vmpage.8 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH VMPAGE 8 "06 April 1988"
.SH NAME
vmpage \- report the current physical page usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vmpage
[
.I namelist
[
.I corefile
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "vmpage report" "" "\fLvmpage\fP \(em report current physical page usage"
.IX page "report current physical page usage"
.IX report "current physical page usage"
.IX memory "report current physical page usage"
.LP
.B vmpage
classifies physical memory pages into the following categories.
.TP
.BI "physmem " physmem
Specifies the number of physical pages the kernel manages.
Usually this is the amount of physical memory on the machine.
In some systems, a few pages are considered to be managed by the prom
monitor, and are not included in
.IR physmem .
.TP
.BI "startup " startup
Specifies the number of pages that the kernel has consumed by one
intermediate point during startup (startup is also known as kernel
initialization).  The kernel will always use at least
.I startup
pages.
.TP
.BI "maxmem " maxmem
The difference between
.I physmem
and
.IR startup .
.I maxmem
Indicates the maximum amount of memory that is
available for use by user programs at one intermediate point
during startup.  Since the kernel still needs
to allocate additional pages,
there will never actually be
.I maxmem
pages available for user processes.
.TP
.BI "pageable " pageable
The sum of cached and free pages (see below).  There are
.I pageable
pages readily available for user processes.
.TP
.BI "scanned " scanned
A count of the number of pages scanned.
Not all pages are scanned, since some pages are known
to always be in use by the system.
.TP
.BI "locked " locked
Specifies the number of pages that are locked by the kernel.
The kernel locks pages to prevent them from being changed.
For example, while the kernel is establishing a page's identity,
it will lock the page.
.TP
.BI "kept " kept
Specifies the number of pages that are \*(lqkept\*(rq by the kernel.
The kernel \*(lqkeeps\*(rq pages to prevent them from being removed.
For example, the kernel will \*(lqkeep\*(rq a page actively involved
in an I/O operation.
.TP
.BI "cached " cached
Specifies the number of pages holding cached information
which are available for reuse by user processes.
.TP
.BI "free " free
Specifies the number of pages on the freelist and ready for immediate
allocation.  Note that the system attempts to keep a certain number of
pages readily available to reduce allocation latency.
.SH OPTIONS
.PD 0
.TP 10
.I namelist
Specifies the location of the system namelist.
It defaults to
.BR /vmunix .
.TP
.I corefile
Specifies the location of the system memory image.
It defaults to
.BR /dev/kmem .
.PD
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
.ft B
.nf
example% vmpage
vmpage: all results in decimal pages
physmem 510, startup 95, maxmem 415, pageable 320
scanned 432, locked 17, kept 95, cached 288, free 32
.ft R
.fi
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /vmunix
default system namelist
.TP
.B /dev/kmem
default system memory image
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pagesize (1)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B vmpage
is not synchronized with the kernel, so page usage can
change while
.B vmpage
is running, leading to (minor) inaccuracies.
