.\" @(#)vpr.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH VPR 1 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
vpr, vprm, vpq, vprint \- raster printer/plotter spooler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vpr
[
.B \-lmvwW
] [
.B \-t
[
.B \-1234
.I font
] ] [
.BI \-w width
] [
.IR filename .\|.\|.
]
.LP
.B vprm
[
.IR id .\|.\|.
] [
.I filename .\|.\|.
] [
.I owner .\|.\|.
]
.LP
.B vpq
.LP
.B vprint
[
.B \-W
]
.I filename .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I Versatec Printer
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "vpr command"  ""  "\fLvpr\fP \(em print on raster printer/plotter"
.IX  "vprm command"  ""  "\fLvprm\fP \(em remove jobs from raster print queue"
.IX  "vpq command"  ""  "\fLvpq\fP \(em display raster print queue"
.IX  "vprint command"  ""  "\fLvprint\fP \(em print on raster printer/plotter"
.LP
.B vpr
queues the
named files
for printing or typeset simulation on one of the available
raster printer/plotters.
If no files are named, the standard input is read.
By default the input is assumed to be line printer-like text.
For very wide plotters, the input is run through the filter
.B /usr/lib/sidebyside
giving it an argument of
.B \-w106
which arranges it four pages adjacent with
90 column lines (the rest is for the
left margin).  Since there are 8 lines
per inch in the default printer font,
.B vpr
thus produces 86 lines per page (the
top and bottom lines are left blank).
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP
.B \-l
Print the input in a more literal manner.
Page breaks are not inserted, and most
control characters (except format effectors: \\n, \\f, etc.)
are printed
(many control characters print
special graphics not in the
.SM ASCII
character set.)
.SM TAB
and underline processing is still done.
If this option is not given,
control characters which are not format effectors are ignored,
and page breaks are inserted after an appropriate number of lines
have been printed on a page.
.TP
.B \-m
Report by
.BR mail (1)
when printing is complete.
.TP
.B \-v
Use the filter
.B /usr/lib/vrast
to convert the vectors to raster.
The named files must be a parameter and
vector file (in that order) created by
.BR plot (3X)
routines.
.TP
.B \-w
(Applicable only to wide output devices.)
Do not run the input through
sidebyside.
Such processing has been done already, or full (440 character) printer
width is desired.
.TP
.B \-W
Queue files for printing on a wide output device, if available.
Normally, files are queued for printing on a narrow output device.
.TP
.B \-t
Use the filter
.B /usr/lib/vcat
to typeset the input on the printer/plotter.
The input must have been generated by
.BR troff (1)
run with the
.B \-t
option.
This is not normally run directly
to wide output devices, since it is wasteful
to run only one page across.
The program
.BR vtroff (1)
is normally used and arranges,
using
.BR vsort (1)
for printing to occur four pages across,
conserving paper.
.TP
.BI \-1234 " font"
Specify a font to be mounted on font position
.IR i .
The daemon
will construct a
.B .railmag
file referencing
.BR /usr/lib/vfont/name.size .
.TP
.BI \-w width
Use width
.I width
rather than 90 for
.I sidebyside.
.LP
.B vprm
removes entries from the raster device queues.
The
.SM ID\s0,
filename or owner should be that reported by
.BR vpq (1).
All appropriate files will be removed.
Both queues are always searched.
The
.SM ID
of each file removed from the queue will be printed.
.LP
.B vpq
prints the queues.
Each entry in the queue is printed showing
the owner of the queue entry,
an identification number,
the size of the entry in characters,
and the file which is to be printed.
The
.SM ID
is useful for removing a specific entry from the printer queue using
.B vprm
.LP
.B vprint
is a shell script which
.BR pr 's
a copy of each named file on one of the electrostatic printer/plotters.
The files are normally printed on a narrow device;
.B \-W
option causes them to be printed on a wide device.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/spool/v?d/*
device spool areas
.TP
.B /usr/lib/v?d
daemons
.TP
.B /usr/lib/vpd
Versatec daemon
.TP
.B /usr/lib/vpf
filter for printer simulation
.TP
.B /usr/lib/*vcat
filter for typeset simulation
.TP
.B /usr/lib/vrast
filter for plot
.TP
.B /usr/lib/sidebyside
filter for wide output
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mail (1),
.BR pti (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR vsort (1),
.BR vtroff (1),
.BR plot (3X),
.BR vp (4),
.BR vfont (5)
.SH BUGS
The 1's (one's) and l's (lower-case L's) in a Benson-Varian's
standard character set look very similar; caution is advised.
.LP
A versatec's hardware character set is rather ugly.
.B vprint
should use one of the constant width
fonts to produce prettier listings.
