.\" @(#)vwcvph.6 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH VWCVPH 6  "22nd February 1983"
.SH NAME
vwcvph \- view convex polyhedron
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/demo/vwcvph
file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vwcvph
allows the user to view a convex polyhedron from
various positions with hidden surfaces removed.
The viewing position is selected using the mouse.
Using the SunCore Graphics Package, a 3-D projection
is drawn on the Sun Monochrome Bitmap Display.
The mandatory file argument contains a polygonal object definition as
described in the manual page for /usr/demo/rotcvph.
.LP
The program operates in two modes: DisplayObject mode and SelectView mode.
The program starts in DisplayObject mode.
.LP
.BR DisplayObject :
The object is displayed in 3-D perspective with hidden surfaces removed.
Type "q" while in this mode to exit the program.  Hit mouse button 3 to
switch to SelectView mode.
.LP
.BR SelectView :
Schematic projections of the outline of the object are shown and the mouse
is used to select a viewing position.  Use button 1 to set x and button 2
to set y in the
.IR "Front View" .
Use button 2 to set z in the
.IR "Top View" .
Hit button 3 to switch to DisplayObject mode.
.LP
The view shown in DisplayObject mode is drawn using the conventions that the
viewer is always looking from the viewing position toward the center of
the object and that the positive y axis on the screen is the projection of
the positive y axis in object coordinates.
.LP
The input file may define non-convex objects.  The program will
display these objects but hidden surface computations will not be done
correctly.
.SH FILES
/usr/demo/data/*.dat	Sample object definition files
.SH BUGS
Lines which are common to two visible polygons in a view are drawn twice, once
for each polygon.
