.\" @(#)acctcom.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from SV
.TH ACCTCOM 1 "12 January 1990"
.SH NAME
acctcom \- search and print process accounting files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B acctcom
[
.B \-abfhikmqrtv
]
[
.BI \-C " sec"
]
[
.BI \-e " time" 
]
[
.BI \-E " time"
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.BI \-g " group"
]
[
.BI \-H " factor"
]
[
.BI \-I " chars" 
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.BI \-l " line"
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.BI \-n " pattern"
]
[
.BI \-o " output-file"
]
[
.BI \-O " sec"
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.BI \-s " time"
]
[
.BI \-S " time"
]
[
.BI \-u " user"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "acctcom" "" "\fLacctcom\fP \(em search and print process acounting files" ""
.IX "accounting" "acctcom" "" "\fLacctcom\fP \(em search and print process accounting files"
.LP
.B acctcom
reads
.IR filename ,
the standard input, or
.BR /var/adm/pacct ,
in the form described by
.BR acct (5)
and writes selected records to the standard output.
Each record represents the execution of one process.
The output shows the
.BR "\s-1COMMAND NAME\s0" ,
.BR \s-1USER\s0 ,
.BR \s-1TTYNAME\s0 ,
.BR "\s-1START TIME\s0" ,
.BR "\s-1END TIME\s0" ,
.B \s-1REAL\s0
.BR (\s-1SEC\s0) ,
.B \s-1CPU\s0
.BR (\s-1SEC\s0) ,
.BR "\s-1MEAN SIZE(K)\s0" ,
and optionally,
.B F
(the
.IR fork / exec
flag:
.B 1
for 
.B fork(\|)
without 
.BR exec(\|) ),
.SB STAT
(the system exit status),
.BR "\s-1HOG FACTOR\s0" , 
.BR "\s-1KCORE MIN\s0" ,
.BR "\s-1CPU FACTOR\s0" ,
.BR "\s-1CHARS TRNSFD\s0" ,
and 
.SB BLOCKS READ
(total blocks read and written).
.LP
A 
.RB ` # '
is prepended to the command name if the command was executed with
super-user privileges.
If a process is not associated with a known terminal, a 
.RB ` ? '
is printed in the
.SB TTYNAME
field.
.LP
If no 
.IR filename s
are specified, and
if the standard input is associated with a terminal or
.B /dev/null
(as is the case when using
.RB ` & '
in the shell),
.B /var/adm/pacct
is read; otherwise, the standard input is read.
.LP
If any
.I filename
arguments are given,
they are read in their respective order.
Each file is normally read forward, that is, in chronological order
by process completion time.
The file
.B /var/adm/pacct
is usually the current file to be examined;
a busy system may need several such files
of which all but the current file are found in
.BR /var/adm/pacct ?.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B \-a
Show some average statistics about the processes selected.
The statistics will be printed after the output records.
.TP
.B \-b
Read backwards, showing latest commands first.
This option has no effect when the standard input is read.
.TP
.B \-f
Print the
.IR fork / exec
flag and system exit status columns in the output.
The numeric output for this option will be in octal.
.TP
.B \-h
Instead of mean memory size,
show the fraction of total available
.SM CPU
time consumed by the process
during its execution.
This \*(lqhog factor\*(rq is computed as:
.RS
.RS
(total \s-1CPU\s+1\ time)/(elapsed\ time)
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B \-i
Print columns containing the I/O counts in the output.
.TP
.B \-k
Instead of memory size, show total kcore-minutes.
.TP
.B \-m
Show mean core size (the default).
.TP
.B \-q
Do not print any output records, just print the average statistics as with
the
.B \-a
option.
.TP
.B \-r
Show
.SM CPU
factor (user time/(system-time + user-time).
.TP
.B \-t
Show separate system and user
.SM CPU
times.
.TP
.B \-v
Exclude column headings from the output.
.TP
.BI \-C " sec"
Show only processes with total
.SM CPU
time, system plus user, exceeding
.I sec
seconds.
.TP
.BI \-e " time"
Select processes existing at or before
.IR time .
.TP
.BI \-E " time"
Select processes ending at or before
.IR time .
Using the same
.I time
for both
.B \-S
and
.B \-E
shows the processes that existed at
.IR time .
.TP
.BI \-g " group"
Show only processes belonging to
.IR group .
The 
.I group
may be designated by either the group 
.SM ID
or group name.
.TP
.BI \-H " factor"
Show only processes that exceed
.IR factor ,
where factor is the \*(lqhog factor\*(rq as explained in the
.B \-h 
option above.
.TP
.BI \-I " chars"
Show only processes transferring more characters than
the cutoff number given by
.IR chars .
.TP
.BI \-l " line"
Show only processes belonging to terminal
.BR /dev/line .
.TP
.BI \-n " pattern"
Show only commands matching
.I pattern
that may be a regular expression as in
.BR regexp (3).
.TP
.BI \-o " ofile"
Copy selected process records in the input data format to
.IR ofile ;
suppress standard output printing.
.TP
.BI \-O " sec"
Show only processes with
.SM CPU
system time exceeding
.I sec
seconds.
.TP
.BI \-s " time"
Select processes existing at or after
.IR time ,
given in the format
.IR hr \|[\|:\| min \|[\|:\| sec \|]\|]\|.
.TP
.BI \-S " time"
Select processes starting at or after
.IR time .
.TP
.BI \-u " user"
Show only processes belonging to
.I user
that may be specified by: a user 
.SM ID\s0,
a login name
that is then converted to a user 
.SM ID\s0,
a 
.RB ` # ',
which designates only those processes executed with
super-user privileges, or 
.RB ` ? ',
which designates only those processes associated with unknown user 
.SM ID\s0s.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/passwd
.TP
.B /var/adm/pacct
.TP
.B /etc/group
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ps (1),
.BR su (1V)
.BR acct (2V),
.BR regexp (3),
.BR acct (5),
.BR utmp (5V),
.BR acct (8),
.BR acctcms (8),
.BR acctcon (8),
.BR acctmerg (8),
.BR acctprc (8),
.BR acctsh (8),
.BR fwtmp (8),
.BR runacct (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B acctcom
reports only on processes that have terminated; use
.BR ps (1)
for active processes.
If
.I time
exceeds the present time, then
.I time
is interpreted as occurring on the previous day.
