.\" @(#)addbib.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; 
.TH ADDBIB 1 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
addbib \- create or extend a bibliographic database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B addbib
[
.B \-a
]
[
.B \-p
.I promptfile
]
.I database
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B addbib
is available with the
.I Text
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  addbib  ""  "\fLaddbib\fR \(em create bibliography"
.IX  "document production" addbib "" "\fLaddbib\fR \(em create bibliography"
.IX  "bibliography"  "\fLaddbib\fR \(em create or extend"
.IX  create  "bibliography addbib"  ""  "bibliography \(em \fLaddbib"
.IX  "extend bibliography \(em \fLaddbib\fR"
.LP
When
.B addbib
starts up, answering
.B y
to the initial
.B Instructions?
prompt yields directions; typing
.B n
or
.SM RETURN
skips them.
.B addbib
then prompts for various bibliographic fields, reads responses
from the terminal, and sends output records to
.I database.
A null response (just
.SM RETURN\s0)
means to leave out that field.  A
.RB ` \- ' 
(minus sign)
means to go back to the previous field.  A trailing
backslash allows a field to be continued on the next line.  The
repeating
.B Continue?
prompt allows the user either to resume by
typing
.B y
or 
.SM RETURN\s0, 
to quit the current session by typing
.B n
or
.BR q ,
or to edit 
.I database
with any system editor 
.RB ( vi (1),
.BR ex (1),
.BR ed (1)).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-a
Suppress prompting for an abstract; asking for an
abstract is the default.
Abstracts are ended with a 
.SM CTRL\s0\-D.
.TP
.BI \-p " promptfile"
Use a new prompting skeleton, defined in
.IR promptfile .
This file should contain prompt strings, a 
.SM TAB\s0,
and the key-letters to be written to the
.IR database .
.SH USAGE
.SS Bibliography Key Letters
.LP
The most common key-letters and their meanings are given below.
.B addbib
insulates you from these key-letters,
since it gives you prompts in English,
but if you edit the bibliography file later on,
you will need to know this information.
.RS
.TP 
.B %A
Author's name
.TP
.B %B
Book containing article referenced
.TP
.B %C
City (place of publication)
.TP
.B %D
Date of publication
.TP
.B %E
Editor of book containing article referenced
.TP
.B %F
Footnote number or label (supplied by  
.BR refer )
.TP
.B %G
Government order number
.TP
.B %H
Header commentary, printed before reference
.TP
.B %I
Issuer (publisher)
.TP
.B %J
Journal containing article
.TP
.B %K
Keywords to use in locating reference
.TP
.B %L
Label field used by
.B \-k
option of 
.B refer
.TP
.B %M
Bell Labs Memorandum (undefined)
.TP
.B %N
Number within volume
.TP
.B %O
Other commentary, printed at end of reference
.TP
.B %P
Page number(s)
.TP
.B %Q
Corporate or Foreign Author (unreversed)
.TP
.B %R
Report, paper, or thesis (unpublished)
.TP
.B %S
Series title
.TP
.B %T
Title of article or book
.TP
.B %V
Volume number
.TP
.B %X
Abstract \(em used by
.BR roffbib ,
not by
.B refer
.TP
.B %Y,Z
Ignored by
.B refer
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
Except for
.RB A ,
each field should be given just once.
Only relevant fields should be supplied.
.RS
.nf
.ft B
%A	Mark Twain
%T	Life on the Mississippi
%I	Penguin Books
%C	New York
%D	1978
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ed (1),
.BR ex (1),
.BR indxbib (1),
.BR lookbib (1),
.BR refer (1),
.BR roffbib (1),
.BR sortbib (1),
.BR vi (1)
.LP
.B refer
in
.TX DOCS
