.\" @(#)adjacentscreens.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;.
.TH ADJACENTSCREENS 1 "19 December 1989"
.SH NAME
adjacentscreens \- connect multiple screens to SunView window driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B adjacentscreens 
[
.BR \-c \||\|\c
.B \-m
] 
.I center-screen
.if n .ti +5n
[
.BR \-l \||\|\c
.BR \-r \||\|\c
.BR \-t \||\|\c
.B \-b
.IR " side-screen " "] .\|.\|."
.B \-x
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available
with the
.TX SVBG 
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  adjacentscreens  ""  "\fLadjacentscreens\fP"
.IX  "window management"  "adjacentscreens command"  ""  "\fLadjacentscreens\fP command"
.LP
.B adjacentscreens
tells the window-driver's mouse-pointer tracking mechanism 
how to move between screens that contain windows.  
Note: 
.BR sunview (1)
must be running on all screens before 
.B adjacentscreens
is used.  Once properly notified using
.BR adjacentscreens\| ,
the mouse pointer slides from one screen to another
as you move the pointer past the appropriate edge of a screen.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c " center-screen"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-m " center-screen"
.PD
.I center-screen
is the name of a frame buffer device, such as 
.BR /dev/fb ;
all other physical screen-positions are given relative to this
reference point.
The 
.B \-c
or \-m
flag  is optional.  If omitted, the first argument is taken
as
.IR center-screen .
If no further arguments are given,
.I center-screen
has no neighbors.
.TP
.BI \-l " side-screen"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-r " side-screen"
.TP
.BI \-t " side-screen"
.TP
.BI \-b " side-screen"
.TP
.BI \-l " side-screen"
.PD
.I side-screen
is also a frame buffer device name,
such as 
.BR /dev/cgone .
The 
.B \-l
flag indicates that
.I side-screen
is to the left of
.IR " center-screen" ;
.B \-r
indicates that it is to the right.
.B \-t
indicates that 
.I side-screen
is on top of (above)
.IR  center-screen ;
.B \-b
indicates that it is below.  Each neighboring screen can be
specified as an option on the command line.
.TP
.B \-x
Suppress the normal notification to a 
.I side-screen
pointer tracker that
.I center-screen
is its only neighbor.
This option is useful if you have a large number of screens or
want exotic inter-window pointer movements.
.LP
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
The following command:
.RS
.LP
.B
example% adjacentscreens /dev/fb\ \-r\ /dev/cgone
.RE
.LP
sets up pointer tracking so that the pointer slides from 
a monochrome screen 
.RB ( /dev/fb )
to a color screen
.RB ( /dev/cgone )
when the pointer moves off the right hand edge of the monochrome
display.
Similarly, the pointer slides from the color screen to the monochrome
screen when the pointer moves off the color screen's left edge.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/fb
.TP
.B /dev/cgone
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sunview (1),
.BR switcher (1)
.SH BUGS
Window systems on all screens must be initialized before running
.BR adjacentscreens .
