.\" @(#)ar.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 24 Feb 1979
.TH AR 1V "18 February 1988"
.SH NAME
ar \- create library archives, and add or extract files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ar
.BR d " | " m " | "
.BR p " | " q " | "
.BR r " | " t " | " x
[ [
.B clouv
]
[
.BR abi
.I position-name
] ]
.I archive
[
.IR member-file .\|.\|.
]
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/ar
.RB [ \- ]
.BR d " | " m " | "
.BR p " | " q " | "
.BR r " | " t " | " x
[ [
.B clouvs
]
[
.BR abi
.I position-name
] ]
.I archive
[
.IR member-file .\|.\|.
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  ar  ""  "\fLar\fP \(em library maintenance"
.IX  archive  "ar command"  ""  "\fLar\fP \(em library maintenance"
.IX  "library management"  "ar command"  ""  "\fLar\fP \(em library maintenance"
.IX  "object code management"  "ar command"  ""  "\fLar\fP \(em library maintenance"
.IX  "programming tools"  "maintain object libraries"
.LP
.B ar
maintains groups of files combined into a single archive file.
An archive file comprises a set of
member files and header information for each file.
The archive header and the headers for the file consist of printable
characters
(assuming that the names of the files in the archive contain printable
characters),
and are in a format portable across all machines.
This format is described in detail in
.BR ar (5)).
If an archive is composed of printable files, with printable file names,
the entire archive is printable.
.LP
.B ar
is normally used to create and update library files used by the
link editor
.BR ld (1),
but can be used for any similar purpose.
.LP
.I archive
is the name of the archive file.
.I member-file
is a member file contained in the archive. 
If this argument is omitted, the command applies to all entries
in the archive.  Member names have a maximum of 15 characters,
except on Sun386i systems, where they have a
maximum of 14 characters, longer names are truncated.
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
.B ar
runs
.B ranlib
after modifying an archive, so that the symbol table member of the
archive is kept up-to-date.
.SH OPTIONS
You must indicate only one of:
.BR d ,
.BR m ,
.BR p ,
.BR q ,
.BR r ,
.BR t ,
or
.BR x ,
which may be followed by one or more
.BR Modifiers .
.TP
.B d
Delete the named files from the archive file.
.TP
.B m
Move the named files to the end of the archive.
.TP
.B p
Print. If no names are given, all files in the archive are written to the
standard output; if no names are given, only those files are written, and they
are written in the order that they appear in the archive.
.TP
.B q
Quick append. Append the named files to the end of the archive file
without searching the archive for duplicate names.
Useful only to avoid
quadratic behavior when creating a large archive piece-by-piece.
If this option is used to add a member to an archive, and a member with the
same name as that member already exists in the archive, the old member will
not be removed; two members with the same name will exist in the archive.
.TP
.B r
Replace the named files in the archive.
.TP
.B t
Table of contents.
If no names are given, all files in the archive are listed;
if names are given, only those files are listed.
.TP
.B x
Extract. If no names are given, all files in the archive
are extracted into the current directory; if names are given,
only those files are extracted. In neither case does
.B x
alter the archive file.
.LP
.SS Modifiers
.TP
.B c
Create.
Suppress the message that is produced by default when
.I archive
is created.
.TP
.B l
Local.
Place temporary files in the current working directory rather than
in the default temporary directory,
.BR /tmp .
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B o
Old date.
When files are extracted with the
.B x
option, set the ``last modified'' date to the date recorded in the archive.
.TP
.B u
Update.
Replace only those files that have changed since they were put in the
archive.  Used with the
.B r
option.
.TP
.B v
Verbose.
When used with the
.BR r ,
.BR d ,
.BR m ,
or
.B q
option, give a file-by-file description of the creation of a
new archive file from the old archive and the constituent files.
When used with
.BR x ,
give a file-by-file description of the extraction of archive files.
When used with
.BR t ,
give a long listing of information about the
files.  When used with
.BR p ,
write each member's name to the standard output before writing the member
to the standard output.
.TP
.BI a " position-name"
Place new files after
.I position-name
.RI ( position-name
argument must be present).
Applies only to the
.B r
and
.B m
options.
.TP
.BI b " position-name"
Place new files before
.I position-name
.RI ( position-name
argument must be present).
Applies only to the
.B r
and
.B m
options.
.TP
.BI i " position-name"
Identical to the
.B b
modifier.
.SH SYSTEM V OPTIONS
.LP
The options may be preceded by
.RB ` \- '.
.SS Modifiers
.TP
.B s
Force the regeneration of the archive symbol table even if
.B ar
is not invoked with a command that will modify the archive contents.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Creating a new archive:
.RS
.nf
.ft B
example% ar rcv archive file.o
a \- file.o
.ft R
.RE
.br
.ne 4
Adding to an archive:
.RS
.ft B
example% ar rav file.o archive next.c
a \- next.c
.ft R
.RE
Extracting from an archive:
.RS
.ft B
example% ar xv archive file.o
x \- file.o
example% ls file.o
file.o
.ft R
.RE
Seeing the table of contents:
.RS
.ft B
example% ar t archive
file.o
next.c
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BR /tmp/v* .
temporary files
.TP
.B /tmp
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ld (1),
.BR lorder (1),
.BR ranlib (1),
.BR ar (5)
.SH BUGS
.LP
If the same file is mentioned twice in an argument list,
it is put in the archive twice.
.LP
The ``last-modified'' date of a file will not be altered by the
.B o
option unless the user is either the owner of the extracted file or the
super-user.
