'\" t
.\" @(#)arch.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH ARCH 1 "29 April 1992"
.SH NAME
arch \- display the architecture of the current host 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B arch
.br
.B arch \-k
.br
.BI arch " archname"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "arch command"  ""  "\fLarch\fP \(em display Sun architecture"
.IX "application architecture" "" "application architecture \(em \fLarch\fP"
.IX display  "architecture of current Sun host \(em \fLarch\fP"
.LP
.B arch
displays the application architecture of the
current host system.
.LP
Sun systems can be broadly classified by their
.IR architectures ,
which define what executables will run
on which machines.
A distinction can be made between
.I kernel architecture
and 
.I application architecture
(or, commonly, just \*(lqarchitecture\*(rq).
Machines that run different kernels due to underlying
hardware differences may be able to run the same
application programs. 
For example, the MC68020-based
Sun-3/160 system
and the MC68030-based Sun-3/80 system run different
Sun\s-1OS\s+1 kernels,
but can execute the same applications.
These machines could be described as having \*(lqthe
same application architecture\*(rq but 
\*(lqdifferent kernel architectures.\*(rq
.LP
Executing
.B arch
will display the application architecture of the machine, such as
.BR sun3 ,
.BR sun4 ,
etc.
All machines of the same application architecture will
execute the same application programs,
or user binaries.
.\".ie t \{\
.\"  ========= begin troff version of table =============
.if n .ig IG
.SS Current Architectures
.TS
tab (;), center, box ;
cB   cB   cb
cB   cB   cb
l  | l  | l .
.sp 3p
Application;Kernel;Current Sun System Models
Architecture;Architecture;\^
.sp 3p
=
.sp 3p
sun3;sun3;3/50, 3/60, 3/75, 3/110, 3/140,
;;3/160, 3/180, 3/260, 3/280
.sp 3p
_
.sp 3p
sun3;sun3x;3/80, 3/460, 3/470, 3/480
.sp 3p
_
.sp 3p
sun4;sun4;4/110, 4/260, 4/280,
;;\s-1SPARC\s0system 300 series,
;;\s-1SPARC\s0system 400 series
.sp 3p
_
.sp 3p
sun4;sun4c;\s-1SPARC\s0system 1, \s-1SPARC\s0system 1+,
;;\s-1SPARC\s0system 2, \s-1SPARC\s0system IPC,
;;\s-1SPARC\s0system SLC
.sp 3p
_
.sp 3p
sun4;sun4m;\s-1SPARC\s0system 600MP series
;;\s-1SPARC\s0system 10
.sp 3p
_
.sp 3p
sun386;sun386;386i/150, 386i/250
.sp 3p
.TE
.IG 
.\"  ========= end troff version of table =========
.\"  ========= begin nroff version of table =======
.if t .ig IG
.\".\}
.\".el \{\
.SS Current Architectures
.rs
.sp
.TS
tab (;), center;
cB   cB   cb
cB   cB   cb
l    l    l .
Application;Kernel;Current Sun
Architecture;Architecture;System Models
sun3;sun3;3/50, 3/60, 3/75, 3/110, 3/140,
;;3/160, 3/180, 3/260, 3/280
sun3;sun3x;3/80, 3/460, 3/470, 3/480
sun4;sun4;4/110, 4/260, 4/280,
;;SPARCsystem 300 series,
;;SPARCsystem 400 series
sun4;sun4c;SPARCsystem 1, SPARCsystem 1+,
;;SPARCsystem 2, SPARCsystem IPC,
;;SPARCsystem SLC
sun4;sun4m;SPARCsystem 600MP series,
;;SPARCsystem 10
sun386;sun386;386i/150, 386i/250
.TE
.IG
.\"  ========= end nroff version of table =======
.\".\}
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-k
Display the kernel architecture,
such as
.BR sun3 ,
.BR sun3x ,
.BR sun4c ,
etc.
This defines which specific
Sun\s-1OS\s+1
kernel will run on the machine,
and has implications only for programs
that depend on the kernel explicitly (for example,
.BR ps (1),
.BR vmstat (8),
etc.).
.TP
.I archname
Return \*(lqtrue\*(rq (exit status 0) if 
.I application
binaries for
.I archname
can run on the current host system,
otherwise, return \*(lqfalse\*(rq (exit status 1).
This is the preferred method for installation
scripts to determine the environment
of the host machine; that is, which architecture of a multi-architecture
release to install on this machine.
.I archname
must be a valid application architecture.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mach (1),
.BR machid (1)
.br
.TX INSTALL
