.\" @(#)at.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 and S5R3
.TH AT 1 "31 October 1988"
.SH NAME
at, batch \- execute a command or script at a specified time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B at
.RB [ " \-csm " ]
[
.BI \-q queue
]
.I time
[
.I date
]
[
.B +
.I increment
]
.if n .in +0.5i
.RI [ " script " ]
.br
.in
.B at
.B \-r
.IR jobs ...
.br
.B at
.B \-l
[
.IR jobs ...
]
.LP
.B batch
.RB [ " \-csm " ] 
.RI [ " script " ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  at  ""  "\fLat\fP \(em do job at specified time"
.IX  "timed event services"  "at command"  ""  "\fLat\fP \(em do job at specified time"
.IX "delayed execution" "add job to queue \(em \fLat\fR"
.B at
and
.B batch
read commands from standard input to be
executed at a later time.
.B at
allows you to specify when the commands should be executed,
while jobs queued with
.B batch
will execute as soon as the
system load level permits.
.I script
is the name of a file to be used as command input for the 
Bourne shell, 
.BR sh (1),
the C shell,
.BR csh (1),
or an arbitrary shell specified by the
.SM SHELL
environment variable.
If
.I script
is omitted, command input is accepted from the standard input.
.LP
Standard output and standard error output are
mailed to the user unless they are redirected elsewhere.
The shell environment variables, current directory,
and
.BR umask (2V)
are retained when the commands are executed.
Open file descriptors, traps, and priority are lost.
.LP
Users are permitted to use
.B at
if their name appears in the file
.BR /var/spool/cron/at.allow .
If that file does not exist, the file
.B /var/spool/cron/at.deny
is checked to determine if the user
should be denied access to
.BR at .
If neither file exists, only the super-user is allowed to
submit a job.
If
.B at.deny
is empty, global usage is permitted.
The allow/deny files consist of one user name
per line.
.LP
The
.I time
may be specified as 1, 2, or 4 digits.
One and two digit numbers are taken to be hours,
four digits to be hours and minutes.
The time may alternately be specified as two numbers
separated by a colon, meaning
.IB hour : minute.
A suffix
.B am
or
.B pm
may be appended;
otherwise a 24-hour clock time is understood.
The suffix
.B zulu
may be used to indicate
.SM GMT.
The special names
.BR noon ,
.BR midnight ,
.BR now ,
and
.B next
are also recognized.
.LP
An optional
.I date
may be specified as either
a month name followed by a day number
(and possibly year number preceded by an optional comma) or
a day of the week (fully spelled or abbreviated to three characters).
Two special ``days'',
.B today
and
.B tomorrow
are recognized.
If no
.I date
is given,
.B today
is assumed if the given hour is greater than the current hour
and
.B tomorrow
is assumed if it is less.
If the given month is less than the current month (and no year is
given), next year is assumed.
.LP
The optional
.I increment
is simply
a number
suffixed by one of the following:
.BR minutes ,
.BR hours ,
.BR days ,
.BR weeks ,
.BR months ,
or
.BR years .
(The singular form is also accepted.)
.LP
Thus legitimate commands include:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
at 0815am Jan 24
.br
at 8:15am Jan 24
.br
at now + 1 day
.br
at 5 pm Friday
.ft R
.RE
.LP
.B at
and
.B batch
write the job number and schedule time to standard
error.
.LP
.B batch
submits batch jobs to queue
.BR b ;
this ``batch'' queue is for jobs to be run as soon
as possible.  A job submitted to
.B b
is scheduled to
run immediately and its arguments will not
be interpreted as
.IR time ,
.IR date ,
or
.B +
.IR increment .
.LP
.B batch
is similar to  
.RB ` "at now" ',
but does not, for example, go into the same queue
or respond with the error message
.RB ` "too late" '.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-c
C shell.  
.BR csh 
is used to execute
.I script.
.TP
.B \-s
Standard (Bourne) shell.
.BR sh 
is used to execute the job.
By default,
the
.SM SHELL
environment variable determines which shell to use.
.TP 10
.B \-m
Mail.  Send mail after the job has been run, even if the job
completes successfully.
.TP
.BI \-q queue
Submit the job in queue
.I queue
rather than the default queue
.BR a .
The valid
.IR queue s
are
.B a
through
.BR z .
.B batch
submits jobs in queue
.BR b .
Queue
.B c
is reserved for
.BR cron (8)
and jobs cannot be submitted to that queue.
.TP
\fB\-r\fI jobs\fR .\|.\|.
Remove the specified
.I jobs
previously scheduled by
.B at
or
.BR batch .
The job numbers are the numbers of the jobs
given to you previously by the
.B at
or
.B batch
commands.
You can only remove your own jobs unless you are the super-user.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR [\fI\|jobs\fR .\|.\|.\|]
If
.I jobs
is specified, print the queue entry for those
.IR jobs ;
if
.I jobs
is not specified, print the queue entries for all jobs for the user.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
If neither
.B at.allow
nor
.B at.deny
exists, only the super-user is allowed to
submit a job.
If
.B at.deny
is present, but empty, global usage is permitted.
The allow/deny files consist of one user name
per line.
.SH EXAMPLES
Unless a
.I script
is specified, the
.B at
and
.B batch
commands read
from standard input the commands to be executed
at a later time.
.B sh
and
.B csh
provide different ways of specifying standard input.
Within your commands, it may be useful to redirect standard output.
.LP
This sequence can be used at a terminal:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.B batch
.BI nroff " filename " > " outfile "
\s-1CTRL-D\s0 (hold down `control' and depress `D')
.RE
.fi
.LP
This sequence, which demonstrates redirecting standard
error to a pipe, is useful in a shell procedure (the sequence of
output redirection specifications is significant):
.LP
.RS
.B batch <<!
.br
.BI "nroff " filename " 2>&1 > " outfile
.BI " |  mail " loginid
.br
.B !
.RE
.LP
To have a job reschedule itself, invoke
.B at
from within the
shell procedure, by including code similar
to the following within the shell file:
.IP
.BI "at 1900 thursday next week " shellfile
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /var/spool/cron
main cron directory
.TP
.B /var/spool/cron/at.allow
list of allowed users 
.TP
.B /var/spool/cron/at.deny
list of denied users 
.TP
.B /var/spool/cron/atjobs
spool area
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR atq (1),
.BR atrm (1),
.BR csh (1),
.BR kill (1),
.BR mail (1),
.BR nice (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR umask (2V),
.BR cron (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Complaints about various syntax errors and times out of range.
.SH BUGS
If the system crashes, mail stating that
the job was not completed is not sent to the user.
.LP
Shell interpreter specifiers (such as,
.BR !/bin/csh ) 
in the beginning of
.I script
are ignored.

