.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)atrm.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 6.2 5/10/86
.TH ATRM 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
atrm \- remove jobs spooled by at or batch
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B atrm
.RB [ " \-f\|i " ] 
.RB [ " \- " ] 
.RI [ " job-number " "] .\|.\|." 
.RI [ " username " "] .\|.\|."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "atrm command"  ""  "\fLatrm\fP \(em remove delayed execution jobs"
.IX  remove "delayed execution jobs \(em \fLatrm\fP"
.IX  "delete delayed execution jobs"  ""  "delete delayed execution jobs \(em \fLatrm\fP"
.IX  "delayed execution" "remove jobs from queue"  ""  "remove jobs from queue \(em \fLatrm\fP"
.IX  queue  "remove jobs from delayed execution"  ""  "remove jobs from delayed execution \(em \fLatrm\fP"
.B atrm
removes delayed-execution jobs that were created with the
.BR at (1)
command.  The list of jobs can be displayed by
.BR atq (1).
.LP
.B atrm
removes each 
.I job-number
you specify, and/or all jobs belonging to 
.IR username ,
provided that you own the indicated jobs.
.PP
Jobs belonging to other users can only be removed
by the super-user.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f 
Force.  All information regarding the 
removal of the specified jobs is suppressed.
.TP
.B \-i
Interactive.
.B atrm
asks if a job should be removed; 
a response of
.B  y
verifies that the job is to be removed.
.TP
.B \- 
Remove jobs that were queued by the current user.
If invoked by the super-user, the entire queue will be flushed.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
.B /var/spool/cron
spool area
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR at (1),
.BR atq (1),
.BR cron (8)
