.\" @(#)biff.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH BIFF 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
biff \- give notice of incoming mail messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B biff
[
.BR y \||\| n
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  biff  ""  "\fLbiff\fP \(em mail notifier"
.IX  "mail services"  "biff command"  ""  "\fLbiff\fP \(em mail notifier"
.IX  "reminder services"  "biff command"  ""  "\fLbiff\fP \(em mail notifier"
.LP
.B biff
turns mail notification on or off for the terminal session.
With no arguments,
.B biff
displays the current notification status for the terminal.
.LP
If notification is allowed, the terminal rings the bell and
displays the header and the first few lines of each arriving mail
message.
.B biff
operates asynchronously.  For synchronized notices, use the
.SB MAIL
variable of
.BR sh (1)
or the
.B mail
variable of
.BR csh (1).
.LP
A
.RB ` "biff y" '
command can be included in your
.B \&.login
or
.B \&.profile
file for execution when you log in.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B y
Allow mail notification for the terminal.
.TP
.B n
Disable notification for the terminal.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B \&.login
.TP
.B \&.profile
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.BR cmdtool (1),
.BR csh (1),
.BR mail (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR shelltool (1),
.BR sunview (1),
.BR comsat (8C)
.SH BUGS
You must have ownership the terminal to change its mail-notification
status with
.BR biff ,
but windows running under
.BR sunview (1)
are owned by the super-user.  If you enable mail notification
for the workstation console (in your 
.B \&.login
or 
.BR \&.profile 
file), incoming mail notices also appear on console windows running
under 
.BR sunview (1).
See
.BR shelltool (1)
or
.BR cmdtool (1)
for details.
