.\" @(#)calendar.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 6.1 85/04/29
.TH CALENDAR 1 "18 August 1989"
.SH NAME
calendar \- a simple reminder service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B calendar
[ 
.B \- 
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  calendar  ""  "\fLcalendar\fP \(em reminder service"
.IX  "timed event services"  "calendar command"  ""  "\fLcalendar\fP \(em reminder service"
.IX  "reminder services"  "calendar command"  ""  "\fLcalendar\fP \(em reminder service"
.LP
.B calendar 
consults the file
.B calendar
in the current directory and displays lines
that contain today's or tomorrow's date anywhere in the line.
Most reasonable month-day dates \(em such as `Dec. 7,' `december 7,' and
`12/7' \(em are recognized, but `7 December' or `7/12' are not.
If you give the month as
.RB ` * '
with a date \(em for example,
.RB `` "*\ \ 1" ''
\(em that day in any month will do.
On weekends \*(lqtomorrow\*(rq extends through Monday.
.LP
When the optional
.RB ` \- '
argument is present,
.B calendar
does its job for every user
who has a file
.B calendar
in his login directory
and sends him any positive results by
.BR  mail (1).
Normally this is done daily in the wee hours under control of
.BR cron (8).
.LP
The file
.B calendar
is first run through the C preprocessor,
.BR cpp (1),
to include any other calendar files
specified with the usual
.B #include
syntax.
Included calendars are usually shared by all users,
and maintained by the system administrator.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B ~/calendar
.TP
.B /usr/lib/calendar
to figure out today's and tomorrow's dates
.TP
.B /etc/passwd
.TP
.B /tmp/cal*
.TP
.B /lib/cpp
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR at (1),
.BR cpp (1),
.BR grep (1V),
.BR mail (1),
.BR aliases (5),
.BR cron (8)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The 
.RB ` \- '
argument works only on calendar files that are local to the machine;
.B calendar
is intended not to work on calendar files that are mounted remotely with
.BR \s-1NFS\s0.
Thus, 
.RB ` "calendar \-" '
should be run only on diskful machines where home
directories exist;  running it on a diskless client has no effect.  
.LP
.B calendar 
is no longer in the default root crontab.
Because of the network burden
.RB ` "calendar \-" '
can induce, it is inadvisable in an environment running
.BR ypbind
(see
.BR ypserv (8))
with a large passwd.byname map.  However, if the usefulness of
.B calendar
outweighs the network impact, the super-user may run
.RB ` "crontab \-e" '
to edit the root crontab.
Otherwise, individual users may wish to use
.RB ` "crontab \-e" '
to edit their own crontabs to have
.B cron
invoke
.B calendar
without the
.RB ` \- '
argument, piping output to mail addressed to themselves.
.SH BUGS
.LP
.BR calendar \|'s
extended idea of \*(lqtomorrow\*(rq does not account for holidays.
.\" Sun386i
.LP
Problems may occur when there is no
.B /etc/passwd 
file on the local host.
.\" Sun386i
.LP
The calendar mail will be sent to the user at the machine on which 
.RB ` "calendar \-" '
is run.  If the system administrator wants the mail to be sent to another 
machine, mail aliases should be set up accordingly.
