.\" @(#)cat.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2 BSD and S5r2
.TH CAT 1V "19 July 1989"
.SH NAME
cat \- concatenate and display 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cat
[
.B \-
] 
[
.B \-benstuv
] 
[ 
.IR filename .\|.\|.
]
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/cat
[
.B \-
] 
[
.B \-estuv
]
[
.IR filename .\|.\|.
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "System V commands" "\fLcat\fR"
.IX  cat  ""  "\fLcat\fP \(em concatenate files"
.IX  "concatenate files \(em \fLcat\fP"
.IX  "text processing utilities"  "cat command"  ""  "\fLcat\fP \(em concatenate files"
.IX  files  "cat command"  ""  "\fLcat\fP \(em concatenate"
.LP
.B cat
reads each
.I filename
in sequence and displays it on the standard output.  Thus:
.IP
.B
example% cat goodies
.LP
displays the contents of
.B goodies
on the standard output, and
.IP
.B example%  cat  goodies1  goodies2  >  goodies3
.LP
concatenates the first two files and places the result on the third.
.LP
If no filename argument is given, or if the argument
.RB ` \- '
is given,
.B cat
reads from the standard input.  If the standard input is
a terminal, input is terminated by an 
.SM EOF
condition.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Number the lines, as
.BR \-n ,
but omit the line numbers from blank lines.
.TP
.B \-e
Display non-printing characters, as
.BR \-v ,
and in addition display a
.B $
character at the end of each line.
.TP
.B \-n
Precede each line output with its line number.
.TP
.B \-s
Substitute a single blank line for multiple adjacent blank lines.
.TP
.B \-t
Display non-printing characters, as
.BR \-v ,
and in addition display
.SM TAB
characters as 
.B ^\|I 
(\s-1CTRL-I\s0).
.TP
\-u
Unbuffered.
If
.B \-u
is not used, output is buffered in blocks, or
line-buffered if standard output is a terminal.
.TP
.B \-v
Display non-printing characters (with the exception of
.SM TAB
and
.SM NEWLINE
characters)
so that they are visible.  Control characters print like 
.B ^\|X
for
.SM CTRL-X\s0;
the
.SM DEL
character (octal 0177) print as
.RB ` ^\|? '.
Non-\s-1ASCII\s0 characters (with the high bit set) are displayed as 
.BI M\- x
where
.B M\-
stands for
.RB ` meta '
and
.I x
is the character specified by the seven low order bits.
.SH SYSTEM V OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e
If the
.B \-v
option is specified, display a 
.B $
character at the end of each line.
.TP
.B \-s
Suppress messages about files which cannot be opened.
.TP
.B \-t
If the
.B \-v
option is specified, display
.SM TAB
characters as 
.B ^\|I
(\s-1CTRL-I\s0) and
.SM FORMFEED
characters as
.B ^\|L
(\s-1CTRL-L\s0).
.TP
.B \-v
Display non-printing character (with the exception of
.SM TAB\s0,
.SM NEWLINE,
and
.SM FORMFEED
characters) so that they are visible.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
The environment variables
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.B \s-1LC\s0_default
control the character classification
throughout
.BR cat .
On entry to
.BR cat ,
these environment variables are checked in the
following order:
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.BR \s-1LC\s0_default .
When a valid value is found,
remaining environment variables for character classification
are ignored.
For example, a new setting for
.B \s-1LANG\s0
does not override the current valid character
classification rules of
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 .
When none of the values is valid,
the shell character
classification defaults to the 
.SM POSIX.1 \*(lqC\*(rq
locale.
.br
.ne 5
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cp (1),
.BR ex (1),
.BR more (1),
.BR pg (1V),
.BR pr (1V),
.BR tail (1)
.SH NOTES
.LP
Beware of
.RB ` "cat a b > a" '
and
.RB ` "cat a b > b" ',
which destroy the input files before reading them.
