.\" @(#)checknr.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH CHECKNR 1 "22 December 1987"
.SH NAME
checknr \- check nroff and troff input files; report possible errors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B checknr
[
.B \-fs
]
[
.B \-a
.BI \&. \|x1
.BI \&. \|y1
.BI \&. \|x2
.BI \&. \|y2
\&.\|.\|.
.BI \&. \|xn
.BI \&. \|yn
] 
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-c
.BI \&. \|x1
.BI \&. \|x2
.BI \&. \|x3
\&.\|.\|.
.BI \&. \|xn
] 
[
.I filename
\&.\|.\|.
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I Text
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  checknr  ""  "\fLchecknr\fP \(em check nroff/troff files"
.IX  "document production"  "checknr command"  ""  "\fLchecknr\fP \(em check nroff/troff files"
.IX  "nroff utilities"  "checknr"  "\fLnroff\fP utilities" "\fLchecknr\fP \(em check nroff/troff files"
.IX  "troff utilities"  "checknr"  "\fLtroff\fP utilities" "\fLchecknr\fP \(em check nroff/troff files"
.LP
.B checknr
checks a list of
.BR nroff (1)
or
.BR troff (1)
input files for certain kinds of errors
involving mismatched opening and closing delimiters and
unknown commands. If no files are specified,
.B checknr
checks the standard input.
Delimiters checked are:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
Font changes using \fB\ef\fIx \fR.\|.\|. \fB\efP\fR.
.TP
\(bu
Size changes using \fB\es\fIx \fR.\|.\|. \fB\es0\fR.
.TP
\(bu
Macros that come in open .\|.\|. 
close forms, for example, the
.SB \&.TS
and
.SB \&.TE
macros which must always come in pairs.
.RE
.LP
.B checknr
knows about the
.BR ms (7)
and
.BR me (7)
macro packages.
.LP
.B checknr
is intended to be used on documents that are prepared with
.B checknr
in mind.  It expects a certain
document writing style for
.B \ef
and
.B \es
commands, in that each
.BI \ef x
must be terminated with
.B \efP
and each
.BI \es x
must be terminated with
.BR \es0 .
While it will work to directly go into the next font
or explicitly specify the
original font or point size, and many existing
documents actually do this,
such a practice will produce complaints from
.BR checknr .
Since it is probably better to use the
.B \efP
and
.B \es0
forms anyway, you
should think of this as a contribution to your
document preparation style.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
Ignore
.B \ef
font changes.
.TP
.B \-s
Ignore
.B \es
size changes.
.TP
.BI "\-a ." "x1 " . y1\fR.\|.\|. 
Add pairs of macros to the list.
The pairs of macros are assumed
to be those (such as
.SB \&.DS
and
.BR \s-1.DE\s0 )
that should be checked for
balance.  The
.B \-a
option must be followed by groups of six characters,
each group defining a pair of macros. 
The six characters are a period, the
first macro name, another period, and the second macro name.
For example, to define a pair
.SB \&.BS
and
.BR \s-1.ES\s0 ,
use
.RB ` "\-a.\s-1BS.ES\s0" '
.TP
.BI "\-c ." x1\fR\|.\|.\|.
Define commands which
.B checknr
would otherwise complain about
as undefined.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
.BR eqn (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR me (7), 
.BR ms (7)
.SH BUGS
There is no way to define a one-character macro name using the
.B \-a 
option.
