.\"  @(#)clock.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH CLOCK 1 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
clock \- display the time in an icon or window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B clock
[
.B \-frst
]
[
.B \-d mdyaw
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I SunView User's
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  clock  ""  "\fLclock\fP \(em display time in window"
.IX  display  "time in window"
.IX  time  "display in window"
.LP
.B clock 
is a SunView utility that displays the current time in a window.
When open,
.B clock
shows the date and time in text format.
When closed,
.B clock
displays a clock face.
.LP
Note:  In previous releases
.B clock
was known as
.BR clocktool .
In the current release,
.B /usr/old/clocktool
is a symbolic link to
.BR clock .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
Display the date and day of week on the clock face.
.TP
.B \-r
Use a square
face with roman numerals in the iconic state.
This replaces the default round clock face.
.TP
.B \-s
Start
.B clock
with the seconds turned on.
By default, the clock starts with seconds turned
off, and updates every minute.
With seconds turned on, it updates
every second, and, if iconic, displays a second hand.
.TP
.B \-t
Test mode \(em ignore the real time, and instead run in a loop
continuously incrementing the time by one minute and displaying it.
.TP
.B \-d
Display date information in a small area just below the clock face.
The date information to be displayed may include:
.RS 10
.PD 0
.TP 5
.B m
the month,
.TP
.B d
the day of the month (1-31),
.TP
.B y
the year,
.TP
.B a
the string
.SB AM
or
.BR \s-1PM\s0 ,
as appropriate,
.TP
.B w
the day of the week (Sun-Sat).
.PD
.RE
.IP
There is only room for 3 of these, but any 3 may be
displayed in any sequence.
.LP
.B clock
also accepts all of the generic tool arguments discussed in
.BR sunview (1).
.SH USAGE
.LP
.B clock
listens for keyboard input while open.  It recognizes the
following characters:
.TP
.BR s " or " S
Enable or disable the display of seconds.
.TP
.BR t " or " T
Enable or disable ``test'' mode.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/fonts/fixedwidthfonts/sail.r.6
font for day-of-month clock-face display
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR date (1V),
.BR sunview (1)
.SH NOTES
.LP
When the
.B \-r
option is specified,
.B clock
displays the roman numeral four as 
.B IIII
instead of 
.BR IV 
to counterbalance the roman numeral eight,
.BR VIII .
.br
.ne 5
.SH BUGS
.LP
If you reset the system time,
.B clock
will not reflect the new time
until you change its state from open to icon, or vice versa.
To reset the system time, see
.BR date (1V).
.LP
The date display does not go well with the round clock face.
