.\" @(#)col.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 and S5R6
.TH COL 1V "2 October 1989"
.SH NAME
col \- filter reverse paper motions from nroff output for display on a terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B col
[
.B \-bfhp
]
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/col
[
.B \-bfpx
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "System V commands" "\fLcol\fR"
.IX  col  ""  "\fLcol\fP \(em filter reverse paper motions"
.IX  "document production"  "col command"  ""  "\fLcol\fP \(em filter reverse paper motions"
.IX  "nroff utilities"  "col command"  "\fLnroff\fP utilities"  "\fLcol\fP \(em filter reverse paper motions"
.IX  "troff utilities"  "col command"  "\fLtroff\fP utilities"  "\fLcol\fP \(em filter reverse paper motions"
.IX  "filter reverse paper motions \(em \fLcol\fR"
.LP
.B col
copies the standard input to the standard output and performs
line overlays implied by reverse
.SM LINEFEED
characters (\s-1ESC\s0\-7 in 
.SM ASCII\s0)
and by forward and reverse half
.SM LINEFEED
characters (\s-1ESC\s0\-9 and 
.SM ESC\s0\-8).  
.B col
is particularly
useful for filtering multicolumn output made with the
.B \&.rt
command of
.BR nroff (1),
and output resulting from use of the
.BR tbl (1)
preprocessor.
.LP
The control characters 
.SM SO 
(\s-1ASCII
code 017), and 
.SM SI 
(016) 
are assumed to start and end text in an alternate character set.
The character set (primary or alternate) associated with each
printing character read is remembered; on output, 
.SM SO 
and 
.SM SI 
characters are generated
where necessary to maintain the correct treatment of each character.
.LP
All control characters are removed from the input except
.SM SPACE\s0,
.SM BACKSPACE\s0,
.SM TAB\s0,
.SM RETURN\s0,
.SM NEWLINE\s0, 
.SM ESC 
(033) followed by one of 7, 8, 9, 
.SM SI , 
.SM SO , 
and 
.SM VT
(013).  This last character is an alternate form of
full reverse
.SM LINEFEED\s0,
for compatibility with some other hardware conventions.
All other non-printing characters are ignored.
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
.LP
The System V version of
.B col
converts
.SM SPACE
to
.SM TAB
characters by default.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
The output device in use is not capable of
backspacing.  In this case, if several characters
are to appear in the
same place, only the last one read will be taken.
.TP
.B \-f
Fine.  Although
.B col
accepts half line motions in its input,
it normally does not produce them on output.
Instead, text that would appear
between lines is moved to the next lower full-line boundary.  The
.B \-f
option suppresses this treatment. In this case the output from
.B col
may contain forward half
.SM LINEFEED
characters (\s-1ESC\s0\-9),
but will still never contain either kind of reverse line motion.
.TP
.B \-h
Convert strings of blanks to
.SM TAB
characters to decrease the printing time.
.TP
.B \-p
Pass escape-sequences that
.B col
does not know about to the output,
rather than stripping them out.
This option is highly discouraged unless 
you are fully aware of the position of the escape
sequences within the text.
.SH SYSTEM V OPTIONS 
.TP
.B \-x
Suppress converting
.SM SPACE
characters to
.SM TAB
characters.  
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
The environment variables
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.B \s-1LC\s0_default
control the character classification
throughout
.BR col .
On entry to
.BR col ,
these environment variables are checked in the
following order:
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.BR \s-1LC\s0_default.
When a valid value is found,
remaining environment variables for character classification
are ignored.
For example, a new setting for
.B \s-1LANG\s0
does not override the current valid character
classification rules of
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 .
When none of the values is valid,
the shell character
classification defaults to the 
.SM POSIX.1 \*(lqC\*(rq
locale.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nroff (1),
.BR tbl (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR locale (5),
.BR iso_8859_1 (7)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B col
cannot back up more than 128 lines.
.LP
At most 1600 characters, including
.SM BACKSPACE
characters, are allowed on a line.
.LP
Local vertical motions that would result in backing up over the first
line of the document are ignored.
As a result, the first line must not have any superscripts.
