.\" @(#)colcrt.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH COLCRT 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
colcrt \- filter nroff output for a terminal lacking overstrike capability
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B colcrt
.RB [ " \- " ] 
.RB [ " \-2 " ] 
.RI [ " filename " ".\|.\|. ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  colcrt  ""  "\fLcolcrt\fP \(em document previewer"
.IX  "document production"  "colcrt command"  ""  "\fLcolcrt\fP command"
.IX  "preview documents, colcrt command"  ""  "\fLcolcrt\fP command"
.IX  "nroff utilities" colcrt "" "\fLcolcrt\fP \(em filter nroff output for CRT"
.LP
.B colcrt
provides virtual half and reverse
.SM LINEFEED
sequences for terminals without such capability, and on which overstriking
is destructive.  Half
.SM LINEFEED
characters and underlining
(changed to dashing
.RB ` \- ')
are placed on new lines in between the normal output lines.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-
Suppress all underlining \(em especially useful for previewing
.I allboxed
tables from
.BR tbl (1).
.TP
.B \-2
Print all half
.SM LINEFEED
characters, effectively double spacing
the output.  Normally, a
minimal space output format is used which suppresses empty lines.
.B colcrt
never suppresses two consecutive empty lines, however.  The
.B \-2
option is useful for sending output to the line printer when the
output contains superscripts and subscripts
which would otherwise be invisible.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
A typical use of
.B colcrt
would be
.IP
.ft B
example% tbl exum2.n | nroff \-ms | colcrt \- | more
.ft R
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR col (1V),
.BR more (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR tbl (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR ul (1)
.SH BUGS
.\".LP
.\"Should fold underlines onto
.\".SM SPACE
.\"characters even with the
.\".RB ` \- '
.\"option so that
.\"a true underline character would show; if we did this, however,
.\".B colcrt
.\"would not get rid of
.\".IR cu 'd
.\"underlining completely.
.LP
Cannot back up more than 102 lines.
.LP
General overstriking is lost;
as a special case
.RB ` \||\| '
overstruck with
.RB ` \|\-\| '
or underline becomes
.RB ` \|+\| '.
.LP
Lines are trimmed to 132 characters.
.LP
Some provision should be made for processing
superscripts and subscripts
in documents which are already double-spaced.
