.\" @(#)coloredit.1	1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH COLOREDIT 1 "19 February 1988"
.SH NAME
coloredit \- alter color map segment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B coloredit 
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "SunView" "coloredit" "" "\fLcoloredit\fR"
.IX "coloredit" "" "\fLcoloredit\fR \(em edit icons"
.IX edit "icons \(em \fLcoloredit\fR"
.LP
.B coloredit
is a SunView application for altering the colors of objects (windows)
selected with the cursor.  These colors may be manipulated in three
ways:
.IP \(bu 3
select color name from a list
.IP \(bu
specify the hue/saturation/value for a color
.IP \(bu
specify the red/green/blue levels for a color
.SH USAGE
.SS Window
The
.B coloredit 
window consists of four sections.
.TP 12
colorlist
An interactive window that lists the available colors for selection.
This list can be scrolled up and down with a scrollbar, and
comprises the contents of the
.B .rgb
file.  Select a color and the corresponding
.SM RGB
and
.SM HSV
value appears in the colorbar section.
.B coloredit
first searches the working directory for
.BR .rgb ,
your home directory, and finally,
.B /usr/lib
this file. 
.IP colorbars
An interactive window with two sets of three sliding bars.
One set is for defining the hue saturation value of the color desired.
The second set is for defining the red-green-blue ratios.
The color can be specified using either set of sliding bars.
.IP palette
A display subwindow divided horizontally into two equal parts.
The top part shows the background color;
the bottom, the foreground color.
If the object has more than 2 colors, all the colors are shown.
The background color is color Index #0.  The color with the highest
Index Number is the foreground color.
.IP logo
A display subwindow containing the
Sun logo in the currently-selected color.
.SS Command Buttons
.LP
The set of command buttons in the colorbars subwindow is as follows.
.TP
.B
Grab
The next object selected will have its color map segment
colors displayed in the \fIcoloredit\fP window.  These colors
may then be manipulated.
.TP
.B
Release
Disassociates the colormap segment and the last object with which those
colors were associated.  The window returns to its default state.
.TP
.B
Undo
Returns the colormap segment to the original colors that the object
being colored had when coloring began.  Returns the object to its 
original colors.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B \&./.rgb
.TP
.B ~/.rgb
.TP
.B /usr/lib/.rgb
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sunview (1)
