.\" @(#)cp.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH CP 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
cp \- copy files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cp
[
.B \-ip
]
.I filename1
.I filename2
.br
.B cp
.B \-rR
[
.B \-ip
] 
.I directory1 directory2
.br
.B cp
[
.B \-iprR
]
.I filename
\&.\|.\|.
.I directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  cp  ""  "\fLcp\fP \(em copy files"
.IX  files  "cp command"  files  "\fLcp\fP \(em copy files"
.IX  files  copy
.IX  copy  files
.LP
.B cp
copies the contents of
.I filename1
onto
.IR filename2 .
The mode and owner of
.I filename2
are preserved if it already existed;
the mode of the source file is used otherwise.  If 
.I filename1
is a symbolic link, or a duplicate hard link,
the contents of the file that the link refers to
are copied; links are not preserved.
.LP
In the second form,
.B cp
recursively copies
.IR directory1 ,
along with its contents and subdirectories, to 
.IR directory2 .
If 
.I directory2
does 
.I not
exist,
.B cp
creates it and duplicates the files and subdirectories of 
.I directory1
within it.  If
.I directory2
does exist, 
.B cp 
makes a copy of the
.I directory1
directory within 
.I directory2
(as a subdirectory), along with its files and subdirectories.
.LP
In the third form, each
.I filename
is copied to the indicated
.IR directory ;
the basename of the copy corresponds to that of
the original.  The destination
.I directory
must already exist for the copy to succeed.
.LP
.B cp
refuses to copy a file onto itself.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i
Interactive.  Prompt for confirmation whenever
the copy would overwrite an existing file.  A
.B y
in answer confirms that the copy should proceed.
Any other answer prevents
.B cp
from overwriting the file.
.TP
.B \-p
Preserve.  Duplicate not only the contents of the original file
or directory, but also the modification time and permission modes.
.TP
.B \-r
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-R
Recursive.  If any of the source files are directories,
copy the directory along with its files (including any
subdirectories and their files); the destination
must be a directory.
.PD
.SH EXAMPLES
To copy a file:
.RS
.nf
.ft B
example% cp goodies goodies.old
example% ls goodies*
goodies goodies.old
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.br
.ne 10
.LP
To copy a directory, first to a new, and then to an
existing destination directory:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
example% ls ~/bkup
/usr/example/fred/bkup not found
example% cp \-r ~/src ~/bkup
example% ls \-R ~/bkup
x.c y.c z.sh
example% cp \-r ~/src ~/bkup
example% ls \-R ~/bkup
src x.c y.c z.sh
.sp .5
src:
x.c y.c z.sh
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
To copy a list of files to a destination directory:
.RS
.ft B
example% cp ~/src/* \ \ /tmp
.ft R
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cat (1V),
.BR ln (1V),
.BR mv (1),
.BR pr (1V),
.BR rcp (1C),
.BR tar (1)
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
.I Beware
of a recursive copy like this:
.IP
.B "example% cp \-r ~/src ~/src/bkup"
.LP
which keeps copying files until it fills the entire file system.
.SH BUGS
.B cp
copies the contents of files pointed to by symbolic links.  It does 
.I not
copy the symbolic link itself.  This can lead to inconsistencies
when directory hierarchies are replicated.  Filenames that were
linked in the original hierarchy are no longer linked in the
replica.  This is also true for files with multiple hard links.
See
.BR ln (1V)
for details about symbolic links and hard links.  You can 
preserve links in replicated hierarchies by using
.BR tar (1)
to copy them.
