.\" @(#)cpio.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2 6.3 83/09/02
.TH CPIO 1 "6 September 1988"
.SH NAME
cpio \- copy file archives in and out
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "cpio \-o"
[ 
.B aBcv 
]
.br
.B "cpio \-i"
[ 
.B bBcdfmrsStuv6 
]  
[ 
.I patterns
]
.br
.B "cpio \-p"
[ 
.B adlmuv
]  
.I directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  cpio  ""  "\fLcpio\fP \(em copy archives"
.IX  files  "cpio command"  files  "\fLcpio\fP \(em copy archives"
.IX  archive  "cpio command"  "" "\fLcpio\fP \(em copy archive"
.IX  copy  archives
.B cpio
copies files in to and out from a 
.B cpio 
copy archive.  The archive (built by
.RB ` "cpio \-o" ')
contains pathname and status information, along with the
contents of one or more archived files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-o
Copy out an archive.  Read the standard input for a list of 
pathnames, then copy the named files to the standard
output in archive form \(em including pathname and status
information.
.RS
.TP
.B a
Reset the access times of input files after they have been copied.
.TP
.B B
Output is to be blocked at 5120 bytes to the record.  This does
not apply to the 
.I pass
option.  This option is only meaningful with data directed to
raw magnetic devices, such as
.RB ` "/dev/rmt\fI?" '.
.TP
.B c
Write
.I header
information in
.SM ASCII
character form for portability.
.TP
.B v
Verbose. A list of filenames is displayed.  When used with the 
.B t
option, the table of contents looks like the output of an 
.RB ` "ls \-l" '
command (see
.BR ls (1V)).
.RE
.TP
.B \-i
Copy in an archive.  Read in an archive from the standard input
and extract files with names matching filename substitution
.IR patterns ,
supplied as arguments.
.IP
.I patterns
are similar to those in
.BR sh (1)
or
.BR csh (1),
save that
within
.BR cpio , 
the metacharacters 
.RB ` ? ', 
.RB ` * '
and
.RB ` "[ " .\|.\|.\| " ]" ' 
also match the
.RB ` / '
(slash) 
character.  If no
.I patterns
are specified, the default is 
.B * 
(select all files).
.RS
.TP
.B b
Swap both bytes and half-words after reading in data.
.TP
.B B
Input is to be blocked at 5120 bytes to the record.  This does
not apply to the 
.I pass
option.  This option is only meaningful with data received from
raw magnetic devices, such as
.RB ` "/dev/rmt\fI?" '.
.TP
.B d
Create directories as needed.
.TP
.B f
Copy in all files except those matching
.IR patterns .
.TP
.B m
Retain previous file modification time.
This option is ineffective on
directories that are being copied.
.TP
.B r
Interactively
rename files.  If the user types a null line, the file is skipped.
May not be used with the
.B \-p
option.
.TP
.B s
Swap bytes after reading in data.
.TP
.B S
Swap halfwords after reading in data.
.TP
.B t
Print a table of contents
of the input archive.  No files are created.
.TP
.B u
Copy unconditionally.
Normally, an older file will not replace a newer file with the same 
name.
.TP
.B 6
Process
.SM UNIX 
Version-6 files.  
.RE
.TP
.B \-p
One pass.  Copy in and out in a single operation.  Destination 
pathnames are interpreted relative to the named
.IR directory .
.RS
.TP
.B l
Whenever possible, link files rather than copying them.  
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To copy the contents of a directory into an archive:
.IP
.B "example% ls | cpio \-o > /dev/mt0"
.LP
To read a cpio archive from a tape drive:
.IP
.B "example% cpio -icdB < /dev/rmt0"
.LP
To duplicate the 
.B olddir
directory hierarchy in the
.B newdir
directory:
.RS
.nf
.ft B
example% cd olddir
example% find . \-depth \-print | cpio \-pdl newdir
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
The trivial case
.RS
.nf
.ft B
example% find \|.\| \-depth \-print \|\(bv \|cpio \|\-oB \|>/dev/rmt0
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
can be handled more efficiently by:
.IP
.B "example% find \|.\| \-cpio \|/dev/rmt/0m"
.LP
.B cpio
archive tapes from other sites may have bytes swapped
within the archive.  Although the
.B \-is
option only 
swaps the data bytes and not those in the header
.B cpio
recognizes tapes like this and swaps the bytes in the header
automatically.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ar (1V),
.BR csh (1),
.BR find (1),
.BR ls (1V),
.BR sh (1),
.BR tar (1),
.BR cpio (5)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B cpio
does not support multiple volume tapes.
.LP
Pathnames are restricted to 128 characters.  If there are too many
unique linked files, 
.B cpio
runs out of memory and linking information is lost
thereafter.  Only the super-user can copy special files.
