.\" @(#)crontab.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH CRONTAB 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
crontab \- install, edit, remove or list a user's crontab file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crontab
[
.I filename
]
.br
.B crontab
.B \-e
[
.I username
]
.br
.B crontab
.B \-l
[
.I username
]
.br
.B crontab
.B \-r
[
.I username
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "crontab command" "" "\fLcrontab\fR command"
.LP
.B crontab
copies the specified file,
or the standard input if no file is specified,
into a directory that holds all users'
.B crontab
files.  A user's
.B crontab
file lists commands that are to be executed on behalf of that user at
specified times on specified dates; the format of these files is
described in
.BR crontab (5).
.LP
If the file
.BR /var/spool/cron/cron.allow
exists, only users whose username appears in it can use 
.BR crontab .
If that file does
.I not
exist, however, 
.B crontab 
checks the
.B /var/spool/cron/cron.deny
file to determine if the user
should be denied the use of
.BR crontab .
If neither file exists, only the super-user is allowed to
submit a
.B crontab
job.  If
.B cron.allow
does not exist and
.B cron.deny
exists and is empty, global usage is permitted.
The allow/deny files consist of one user name
per line.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e
Make a copy of the current user's
.B crontab
file, or create an empty file if it does not exist, and edit
that file.  The
.BR vi (1)
editor will be used unless the environment variable
.SB VISUAL
or
.SB EDITOR
indicates an alternate editor.
When editing is complete, install the file as the user's
.B crontab
file if it was modified.
If a
.I username
is given, the specified user's
.B crontab
file is edited, rather than the current user's
.B crontab
file; this may only be done by the super-user.
.TP
.B \-l
List the user's
.B crontab
file.
.TP
.B \-r
Remove the current user's
.B crontab
file from the
.B crontab
directory.
If a
.I username
is given, the specified user's
.B crontab
file is removed, rather than the current user's
.B crontab
file; this may only be done by the super-user.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /var/spool/cron
main cron directory
.TP
.B /var/spool/cron/crontabs
spool area
.TP
.B /var/spool/cron/cron.allow
list of allowed users
.TP
.B /var/spool/cron/cron.deny
list of denied users
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sh (1),
.BR crontab (5),
.BR cron (8)
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
If you inadvertently enter the
.B crontab
command with no argument, do not attempt to get out by typing
\s-1CTRL-D\s0.
This removes all entries in your
.B crontab
file.  Instead, exit by typing your interrupt character
(normally 
\s-1CTRL-C\s0).
