.\" @(#)csplit.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2 6.2
.TH CSPLIT 1V "16 September 1989"
.SH NAME
csplit \- split a file with respect to a given context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B csplit
[
.B \-f 
.I prefix 
] [
.B \-k 
] [
.B \-s
]
.I filename 
.I argument1 
[
.RI .\|.\|. argumentn
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX csplit "" "\fLcsplit\fR \(em split file into sections"
.IX files "\fLcsplit\fR \(em split file into sections"
.B csplit
reads the file whose name is
.I filename
and separates it into
\fIn\fR+1 sections,
defined by the arguments
.I argument1
through
.IR argumentn .
If the
.I filename
argument is a
.RB ` \- ',
the standard input is used.
By default the sections are placed in files named
.B xx00
through
.BR xx\fIn .
.I n
may not be greater than 99.
These sections receive the following portions of the 
file:
.TP .85i 
.BR xx00
From the start of
.I filename
up to (but not including) the line indicated by
.I argument1  
(see 
.SM OPTIONS
below for an explanation of these arguments.)
.PD 0
.TP
.BR xx01 :
From the line indicated by
.I argument1
up to the line indicated by
.IR argument2 .
.TP 
.BR xx\fIn :
From the line referenced by
.I argumentn
to the end of
.IR filename .
.PD
.LP
.B csplit
prints the character counts for each file created,
and removes any files
it creates if an error occurs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP .85i
.BI \-f \ prefix
name the created files 
.IB prefix 00
through
.IR prefixn .
.TP .85i
.B \-k
Suppress removal of created files when an error occurs.
.TP .85i 
.B \-s
Suppress printing of character counts.
.LP
The arguments
.I argument1
through
.I argumentn 
can be a combination of the following selection operators:
.TP .85i 
.BI / rexp /
A file is to be created for the section from the current line
up to (but not including) the line containing the regular expression
.IR rexp .
The current line then becomes the line containing
.IR rexp .
This argument may be followed by an optional
.RB ` + "' or"
.RB ` \- '
some number of lines
(for example,
.BR /Page/\-5 ).
.TP .85i 
.RI % rexp %
This argument is the same as
.RI / rexp /,
except that no file is created for the selected section.
.TP .85i 
.I lineno
A file is to be created from the current line up to (but not including)
.IR lineno .
The current line becomes
.IR lineno .
.TP .85i 
.RI { num }
Repeat argument.
This argument may follow any of the above arguments.
If it follows a
.I rexp
type argument, that argument is applied
.I num
more times.
If it follows
.IR lineno ,
the file will be split every
.I lineno
lines
.RI ( num
times) from that point.
.LP
Enclose all
.I rexp
type arguments that contain blanks or other characters meaningful to
the shell in the appropriate quotes.
Regular expressions may not contain embedded new-lines.
.SH EXAMPLES
This example splits the file at every 100 lines, up to 10,000 lines.
.IP
.B csplit \-k file\ \ 100\ \ {99}
.LP
Assuming that
.B prog.c
follows the normal
.B C
coding convention of ending routines with a
.B }
at the beginning of the line,
this example will create a file containing each separate
.B C
routine (up to 21) in
.BR prog.c .
.IP
.B
csplit \-k prog.\|c\ \ \(fm%main\|(%\(fm\ \ \(fm/^\|}\|/+1\(fm\ \ {20}
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ed (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR regexp (3)
.br
.ne 8
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Self-explanatory except for:
.IP 
.B arg \- out of range
.LP
which means that the given argument did not refer to a line
between the current position and the
.SM EOF\s0.
