.\" @(#)cu.1c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH CU 1C "26 July 1988"
.SH NAME
cu \- connect to remote system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cu
[
.B \-dhnt
]
[
.B \-e
|
.B \-o
]
[
.BI \-l " line"
]
[
.BI \-s " speed"
]
.I phone-number 
.LP
.B cu
[
.B \-dh
]
[
.B \-e
|
.B \-o
]
[
.BI \-s " speed"
]
.BI \-l " line"
.LP
.B cu
[
.B \-dh
]
[
.B \-e
|
.B \-o
]
.I systemname
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "cu command"  ""  "\fLcu\fP \(em connect to remote system"
.IX  "connect to remote system"  "\fLcu\fP"
.IX  "remote system"  "connect to \(em \fLcu\fP"
.IX  communications  cu  ""  "\fLcu\fP \(em connect to remote system"
.LP
.B cu
calls up another system, or possibly a terminal.
It manages an interactive conversation with possible
transfers of
.SM ASCII
files.
.LP
If
.I phone-number
is specified, it is the telephone number of the system to be dialed.
Equal signs specify a pause for a secondary dial tone, and minus
signs specify dialing delays of 4 seconds.
If
.I systemname
is specified, it is the
.SM UUCP
name of a the system to be dialed; in this case,
.B cu
will obtain an appropriate direct line or 
telephone number from
.BR /etc/uucp/Systems .
Note: the
.I systemname
option should not be used in conjunction with the
.B \-l
and
.B \-s
options as
.B cu
will connect to the first available line for the system name specified,
ignoring the requested line and speed.
If neither
.I phone-number
nor
.I systemname
are specified, the
.BI \-l " line"
option must be provided;
.I line
specifies the device name to use.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B \-d
Print diagnostic traces.
.TP
.B \-h
Emulate local echo, supporting calls to other computer systems
which expect terminals to be set to half-duplex mode.
.TP
.B \-n
For added security, prompt the user to provide the telephone number to be
dialed rather than taking it from the command line. 
.TP
.B \-t
Perform appropriate mapping of
.SM RETURN
to
.SM RETURN-LINE-FEED
pairs.
This is used to dial an
.SM ASCII
terminal which has been set to auto answer.
.TP
.B \-e
Generate even parity for data sent to the remote system.
.TP
.B \-o
Generate odd parity for data sent to the remote system.
.TP
.RI \-l " line"
Specify a device name to use as the communication line.
This can be 
used to override the search that would otherwise take place
for the first available line having the right speed.
When the
.B \-l
option is used without the
.B \-s
option, the speed of a line is taken from the 
.B /etc/uucp/Devices
file.
When the
.B \-l
and
.B \-s
options are both used together,
.B cu
will search the
.B Devices
file to check if the requested speed for the
requested line is available.
If so, the connection will be made at the
requested speed; otherwise an error message will be printed and the call
will not be made. 
The specified device is generally a directly connected asynchronous line
(for example,
.BI /dev/tty ab\fR)
in which case a telephone number 
.RI ( phone-number )
is not required.
The specified device need not be in the
.B /dev
directory.
If the specified device
is associated with an auto dialer, a telephone number must be 
provided. 
Use of this option with
.I systemname
rather than
.I phone-number
will not give the desired result (see
.I systemname
below).
.TP
.BI \-s " speed"
Specify the transmission speed (300, 1200, 2400, 4800, 9600);
The default value is \*(lqAny\*(rq speed which will depend on the order of the
lines in the
.B Devices
file.
Most modems are either 300 or 1200 baud.
Directly connected lines may be set to a speed higher than 1200
baud.
.SH USAGE
.LP
After making the connection,
.B cu
runs as two processes: the
.I transmit
process reads data from the standard input and,
except for lines beginning with
.BR ~ ,
passes it to the remote system; the
.I receive
process accepts data from the remote system and,
except for lines beginning with
.BR ~ ,
passes it to the standard output.
Normally, an automatic
.SM XON/XOFF
protocol is used to control input from the remote so the buffer is
not overrun.
.SS Commands
.LP
A tilde (\s+2\|~\|\s0) appearing as the first character of a line is an escape
signal which directs
.B cu
to perform some special action.
The
.I transmit
recognizes the following escape sequences:
.TP 12
.B ~.
Drop the connection and exit (you may still be logged in on the remote
machine).
.TP
.B ~!
Escape to an interactive shell on the local machine (exiting the shell returns
you to
.BR cu ).
.TP
.BI ~! cmd
Run the command
.I cmd
on the local system
(using
.BR "sh \-c" ).
.TP
.BI ~$ cmd
Run the command
.I cmd
locally and send its output to the remote system.
.TP
.B ~%cd
Change the directory on the local system.
Note:
.B ~!cd
will cause the command to be run by a sub-shell,
probably not what was intended.
.HP
.B ~%take
.I from
.RI [ to ]
.br
Copy file
.I from
(on the remote system)
to file
.I to
on the local system.
If
.I to
is omitted,
the
.I from
argument is used in both places.
.HP
.B ~%put
.I from
.RI [ to ]
.br
Copy file
.I from
(on local system)
to file
.I to
on remote system.
If
.I to
is omitted, the
.I from
argument is used in both places.
.IP
For both
.B ~%take
and
.B ~%put
commands, as each block of the file is transferred,
consecutive single digits
are printed to the terminal.
.TP
.BI ~~ line
Send the line
.BI ~ line
to the remote system.
.TP
.B ~%break
Send a 
.SM BREAK
to the remote system (which can also be specified as
.BR ~%b ).
.TP
.B ~%debug
Toggle the
.BR \-d
debugging option on or off (which can also be specified as
.BR ~%d ).
.TP
.B ~t
Prints the values of the
.BR termio (4)
structure variables for the user's
terminal (useful for debugging).
.TP
.B ~l
Prints the values of the
.B termio
structure variables for the remote
communication line (useful for debugging).
.TP
.B ~%nostop
Toggle between
.SM XON/XOFF
input control protocol and no input control.
This is useful in case the remote system is one which does
not respond properly to the
.SM XON
or
.SM XOFF
characters.
.LP
The
.I receive
process normally copies data from the remote system to its standard
output.
Internally the program accomplishes this by initiating an output diversion
to a file when a line from the remote begins with
.BR ~ .
.LP
Data from the remote is diverted (or appended, if
.B >>
is used) to
.I file 
on the local system.
The trailing
.B ~>
marks the end of the diversion.
.LP
The use of
.B ~%put
requires
.BR stty (1V)
and
.BR cat (1V)
on the remote side.
It also requires that the
current erase and kill characters on the remote
system be identical to these current control characters on the local system.
Backslashes are inserted at appropriate places.
.LP
The use of
.B ~%take
requires the existence of
.BR echo (1V)
and
.BR cat (1V)
on the remote system.
Also,
.B tabs
mode (see
.BR stty (1V))
should be set on the remote system if
.SM TAB
characters are to be copied without expansion to
.SM SPACE
characters.
.LP
When  
.B cu
is used on system X to connect to system Y and
subsequently used on system Y to connect to
system Z, commands on system Y can be executed
by using
.BR ~~ .
In general,
.B ~
executes the command on the original machine,
.B ~~
executes the command on the next machine in
the chain.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To dial a system whose telephone number is 9 201 555 1212 using 1200 baud
(where dialtone is expected after the 9):
.RS
.ft B
cu  \-s1200   9=12015551212
.ft R
.RE
.LP
If the speed is not specified, \*(lqAny\*(rq is the default value.
.LP
To login to a system connected by a direct line:
.RS
.ft B
cu  \-l  /dev/ttyXX
.ft R
.RE
.LP
or
.RS
.ft B
cu \-l ttyXX
.ft R
.RE
.LP
To dial a system with the specific line and a specific speed:
.RS
.ft B
cu  \-s1200  \-l  ttyXX 
.ft R
.RE
.LP
To dial a system using a specific line associated with an auto dialer:
.RS
.ft B
cu  \-l  culXX  9=12015551212 
.ft R
.RE
.LP
To use a system name:
.RS
.ft B
cu  systemname
.ft R
.br
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /etc/uucp/Systems
file listing remote systems
.TP
.B /etc/uucp/Devices
file listing devices to use
.TP
.B /var/spool/locks/\s-1LCK\0.\|.*
lock file to avoid conflicts with
.SM UUCP
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cat (1V),
.BR echo (1V),
.BR stty (1V),
.BR tip (1C),
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR termio (4)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Exit code is zero for normal exit,
otherwise, 1.
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
The
.B cu
command does not do any integrity checking on data it transfers.
Data fields with special
.B cu
characters may not be transmitted properly.
Depending on the interconnection hardware,
it may be necessary to use a
.RB ` ~. '
to terminate the conversion even if
.B stty 0
has been used.
Non-printing characters are not dependably transmitted using either
the
.B ~%put
or
.B ~%take
commands.
.SH BUGS
.LP
There is an artificial slowing of transmission by
.B cu
during the
.B ~%put
operation so that loss of data is unlikely.
