.\" @(#)cut.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH CUT 1V "16 September 1989"
.SH NAME
cut \- remove selected fields from each line of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cut 
.BI \-c \|list 
[
.I filename
\&.\|.\|.
]
.LP
.B cut 
.BI \-f \|list 
[
.BI \-d c
] 
[
.B \-s
] 
[
.I filename
\&.\|.\|.
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  cut  ""  "\fLcut\fP \(em remove columns from file"
.IX  files  "cut command"  files  "\fLcut\fP \(em remove columns from"
.IX  columns  "remove from file"
.IX  remove  "columns from file"
.IX  delete  "columns from file"
.LP
Use
.B cut
to cut out columns from a table or 
fields from each line of a file; in data base parlance, it implements
the projection of a relation.
The fields as specified by
.I list
can be of fixed length,
(such as on a punched card),
or of variable length between lines.  They can
be marked with a field delimiter character, such as
.SM TAB
(as specified with the
.B \-d
option).
.B cut
can be used as a filter;
if no files are given, the standard input is used.
In addition,
a file name of
.RB ` \- '
explicitly refers to the standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.BI \-c \|list
By character position.
.I list
is a comma-separated list of integer field numbers (in increasing order),
with an optional
.RB ` \- '
to indicate ranges:
.RS
.TP
.PD 0
.B 1,4,7 
characters 1, 4 and 7
.TP
.BR 1\-3,8 
characters 1 through 3, and 8
.TP
.B \-5,10
characters (1) through 5, and 10
.TP
.B 3\-
characters 3 through (last)
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BI \-f \|list
By field position.
Instead of character positions,
.I list 
specifies fields that are separated a delimiter (normally a
.SM TAB\s0):
.RS
.TP
.B 1,4,7 
fields 1, 4 and 7
.RE
.IP
Lines with no field delimiters are normally passed through intact (to
allow for subheadings).
.TP
.BI \-d c
Set the field delimiter to
.IR c  .
The default is a
.SM TAB\s0.
Characters with special meaning to the shell such as a
.SM TAB
or
.SM SPACE
characters,
must be quoted.
.TP
.B \-s
Suppress lines with no delimiter characters.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 12
.B " cut \-d: \-f1,5 /etc/passwd"
Mapping of user
.SM ID\s0s
to names.
.TP
\fBname=\*`who am i | cut \-f1 \-d" "\*`\fP
Set 
.B name
to the current login name.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR grep (1V),
.BR paste (1V)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PD 0
.TP 12
.B "\s-1ERROR\s0:  line too long"
A line can have no more than 1023 characters or fields.
.TP
.B "\s-1ERROR\s0:  bad list for c\|/\|f option"
Missing 
.B \-c
or 
.B \-f
option or incorrectly specified
.IR list .
No error occurs if a line has fewer fields than the
.I list
calls for.
.TP
.B "\s-1ERROR\s0:  no fields"
The
.I list
is empty.
.TP
.B "\s-1ERROR\s0:  no delimiter"
Missing
.I char
on
.B \-d
option.
.TP
.B "\s-1ERROR\s0:  cannot handle multiple adjacent backspaces"
Adjacent backspaces cannot be processed correctly.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI "\s-1WARNING\s0:  cannot open " filename ": " reason
Either
.I filename
cannot be read or does not exist.
If multiple filenames are present, processing continues.
.TP
.BI "\s-1WARNING\s0:  I/O error reading " filename ": " reason
An I/O error occurred when reading
.IR filename .
If multiple filenames are present, processing continues.
