.\"	@(#)cxref.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2 6.2 9/2/83
.TH CXREF 1V "16 September 1989"
.SH NAME
cxref \- generate a C program cross-reference
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cxref
[
.B \-c
]
[
.B \-w
[
.I num
] ]
[
.B \-o
.I filename
]
[
.B \-t
]
.I filenames
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/cxref
[
.B \-c
]
[
.B \-w
[
.I num
] ]
[
.B \-o
.I filename
]
[
.B \-t
]
.I filenames
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "cxref command"  ""  "\fLcxref\fP \(em cross reference C program"
.IX  "cross reference C program"  ""  "cross reference C program \(em \fLcxref\fP"
.IX  "programming languages"  cxref  ""  "\fLcxref\fP \(em cross reference C program"
.IX  "C programming language"  cxref  ""  "\fLcxref\fP \(em cross reference C program"
.IX  languages  cxref  ""  "\fLcxref\fP \(em cross reference C program"
.LP
.B cxref
analyzes a collection of C files
and attempts to build a cross-reference table.
.B cxref
utilizes a special option of
.BR cpp (1)
to include
.BR #define 'd
information in its symbol table.
It produces a listing on standard output
of all symbols (auto, static,
and global) in each file separately, or with the
.B \-c
option, in combination.
Each symbol 
contains an asterisk
.B (\(**)
before the declaring reference.
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
The System V version of
.BR cxref ,
run as
.BR /usr/5bin/cxref ,
makes the 
.B C 
preprocessor search for include files in
.B /usr/5include
before searching for them in
.BR /usr/include .
.SH OPTIONS
In addition to the
.BR \-D ,
.B \-I
and
.B \-U
options (which are identical to their interpretation by
.BR cc (1V)),
the following options are interpreted by
.BR cxref :
.TP  "\w'-w [ num ]\ \ \ \ \ \ 'u"
.B \-c
Print a combined cross-reference of all input files.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR[\fI num \fR]
Width option which formats output no wider than
.I num
(decimal) columns.
This option will default to 80 if
.I num
is not specified or is less than 51.
.TP
.BI \-o " filename"
Direct output to named
.IR file .
.TP
.B \-s
Operate silently; does not print input file names.
.TP
.BR \-t
Format listing for 80-column width.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/tmp/xr*
temporary files
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cc (1V),
.BR cpp (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages are unusually cryptic, but usually mean
that you cannot compile these files, anyway.
.SH NOTES
While the compiler allows 8-bit strings and comments,
8-bits are not allowed anywhere else.
See
.BR cc (1V)
for an explanation about why
.B cc
is not 8-bit clean.
.SH BUGS
.B cxref
considers a formal argument in a
.BR #define
macro definition to be a declaration of that symbol. For example,
a program that
.BR #include s
.BR ctype.\|h ,
will contain many declarations of the variable
.BR c .
