.\" @(#)date.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH DATE 1V "23 November 1987"
.SH NAME
date \- display or set the date
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B date
[ 
.B \-u
]
[ 
.B \-a
[
.B \-
]
.IB sss . \|fff
]
[
.I yy\|mm\|dd\|hh\|mm
[
.BI . \|ss
] ]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.BI + format
]
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/date
[ 
.B \-u
]
[
.B \-a
[
.B \-
]
.IB sss .fff
]
[
.I mm\|dd\|hh\|mm
.if n .ti +5n
[
.I yy
] ]
[
.BI + format
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "System V commands" "\fLdate\fR"
.IX "date command"  ""  "\fLdate\fP \(em date and time"
.IX display  date
.IX display  "date and time"
.IX display  "time and date"
.IX time  "display date and"
.LP
If no argument is given, or if the argument begins with 
.BR + ,
.B date
displays the current date and time.
Otherwise, the current date is set.
Only the super-user may
.B set
the date.
.LP
.I yy
is the last two digits of the year; the first
.I mm
is the month number;
.I dd
is the day number in the month;
.I hh
is the hour number (24 hour system);
the second
.I mm
is the minute number;
.BI . ss
(optional) specifies seconds.
The year, month and day may be omitted; the
current values are supplied as defaults.
.LP
If the argument begins with
.BR + ,
the output of
.B date
is under the control of the user.
The format for the output is similar to that of
the first argument to
.BR printf (3V).
All output fields are of fixed size (zero padded
if necessary).
Each field descriptor is preceded by
.B %
and will be replaced in the output by
its corresponding value.
A single
.B %
is encoded by
.BR %% .
All other
characters are copied to the output without change.
The string is always terminated with a new-line character.
.LP
Field Descriptors:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 5
.B  n
insert a new-line character
.TP 5
.B  t
insert a tab character
.TP 5
.B  m
month of year \- 01 to 12
.TP 5
.B  d
day of month \- 01 to 31
.TP 5
.B  y
last 2 digits of year \- 00 to 99
.TP 5
.B D
date as mm/dd/yy
.TP 5
.B  H
hour \- 00 to 23
.TP 5
.B  M
minute \- 00 to 59
.TP 5
.B  S
second \- 00 to 59
.TP 5
.B T
time as \s-1HH:MM:SS\s+1
.TP 5
.B  j
day of year \- 001 to 366
.TP 5
.B  w
day of week \- Sunday = 0
.TP 5
.B  a
abbreviated weekday \- Sun to Sat
.TP 5
.B  h
abbreviated month \- Jan to Dec
.TP 5
.B  r
time in
.SM AM/PM 
notation
.PD
.RE
.LP
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
When setting the date, the first
.I mm
is the month number;
.I dd
is the day number in the month;
.I hh
is the hour number (24 hour system);
the second
.I mm
is the minute number;
.I yy
is the last 2 digits of the year number and is optional.
The current year is the default if no year is mentioned.
.SH OPTIONS
.nr xx (\w'\fB\-a\fR [\fB\-\fR]\fIsss\fB.\fIfff\fR'u+4n/1n
.IP \fB\-u\fP \n(xx
Display the date in \s-1GMT\s0 (universal time).
The system operates in
.SM GMT;
.B date
normally takes care of the
conversion to and from local standard and daylight time. 
.B \-u
may also be used to set
.SM GMT
time.
.IP "\fB\-a\fR [\fB\-\fR]\fIsss\fB.\fI\|fff\fR"
Using the
.BR adjtime (2)
system call, tell the system to slowly adjust the time by
.IB sss . \|f\|f\|f
seconds
.RI ( \|f\|f\|f
represents fractions of a second).
This adjustment can be positive or
negative.  The system's clock will be sped
up or slowed down until it has
drifted by the number of seconds specified.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.B date\| 10080045
.RE
.LP
Would set the date to Oct 8, 12:45 \s-1AM\s+1.
.LP
.ne 8
If the year were 1986, and the date were so set,
.RS
.B date\| \(fm+\s-1DATE\s0: %m/%d/%y%n\s-1TIME\s0: %H:%M:%S\(fm
.RE
.LP
would generate as output:
.LP
.RS
.B DATE: 08/01/86
.br
.B TIME: 14:45:05
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /var/adm/wtmp
to record time-setting
.TP
.B /usr/share/lib/zoneinfo
timezone definitions
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR adjtime (2),
.BR printf (3V),
.BR utmp (5V)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B "date: Failed to set date: Not owner"
If you try to change the date but are not the super-user.
.TP
.B "date: bad format character"
If the field descriptor is not recognizable.
