.\" @(#)dd.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH DD 1 "28 January 1988"
.SH NAME
dd \- convert and copy files with various data formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dd
[
.IB option = value
] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "dd command"  ""  "\fLdd\fP \(em convert and copy"
.IX files  "convert and copy"
.IX "convert and copy files"
.B dd
copies a specified input file to a specified output with possible
conversions.  The standard input and output are used by default.  The
input and output block size may be specified to take advantage of raw
physical I/O.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.BI if= name
Input file is taken from
.IR name ;
standard input is default.
.TP 
.BI of= name
Output file is taken from
.IR name ;
standard output is default.  Note: 
.B dd
creates an explicit output file; therefore the
.B seek
option is usually useless with explicit
output except in special cases such as
using magnetic tape or raw disk files.
.TP 
.BI ibs= n
Input block size
.I n
bytes (default 512).
.TP 
.BI obs= n
Output block size
.I n
bytes (default 512).
.TP 
.BI bs= n
Set both input and output block size, superseding
.B ibs
and
.BR obs ;
also, if no conversion is specified,
it is particularly efficient since
no copy need be done.  Block sizes for the Sun386i are 9k for 3.5-inch
floppy disks, and 126b (blocks) for quarter-inch tapes.
.TP 
.BI cbs= n
Conversion buffer size.
.TP 
.BI skip= n
Skip
.IR n ""
input records before starting copy
.TP
.BI files= n
Copy
.I n
input files before terminating (makes sense only
when input is a magtape or similar device).
.TP 
.BI seek= n
Seek
.I n
records from beginning of output file before copying.  This option
generally only works with magnetic tapes and raw disk files and is
otherwise usually useless if the explicit output file
was named with the
.B of
option.
.TP 
.BI count= n
Copy only
.IR n ""
input records.
.TP 
.PD 0
.B conv=ascii
.ds h \h'\w'\fBconv='u'
Convert
.SM EBCDIC
to
.SM ASCII\s0.
.TP
.B \*hebcdic
Convert
.SM ASCII
to
.SM EBCDIC\s0.
.TP
.B \*hibm
Slightly different map of
.SM ASCII
to
.SM EBCDIC\s0.
.TP
.B \*hblock
Convert variable length records to fixed length.
.TP
.B \*hunblock
Convert fixed length records to variable length.
.TP
.B \*hlcase
Map alphabetics to lower case.
.TP
.B \*hucase
Map alphabetics to upper case.
.TP
.B \*hswab
Swap every pair of bytes.
.TP
.B \*hnoerror
Do not stop processing on an error.
.TP
.B \*hsync
Pad every input record to
.BR  ibs .
.TP
.IB \*harg , " arg\|\fR[" ,\fR.\|.\|.]
Several comma-separated conversions, for a combination of
effects.  For instance,
.B conv=sync,block
is useful for reading variable-length output from a pipe.
.PD
.LP
Where sizes are specified, a number of bytes is expected.
A number may end with
.B k
(kilobytes) to specify multiplication by 1024,
.B b
(blocks of 512 bytes) to specify multiplication by 512,
or
.B w
(words) to specify multiplication by 4;
a pair of numbers may be separated by
.B x
to indicate a product.
.br
.ne 7
.LP
.B cbs
is used only if
.BR ascii ,
.BR unblock ,
.BR ebcdic ,
.BR ibm ,
or
.B block
conversion is specified.  In the first two cases,
.B cbs
characters are placed into the conversion buffer, any specified
character mapping is done, trailing blanks trimmed and
.SM NEWLINE
added before sending the line to the output.
In the latter three cases, characters are read into the
conversion buffer, and blanks added to make up an
output record of size
.BR cbs .
.LP
After completion,
.B dd
reports the number of whole and partial input and output blocks.
.br
.if t .ne 4
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To read an
.SM EBCDIC
tape blocked ten 80-byte
.SM EBCDIC
card images per record into the
.SM ASCII
file
.I x:
.IP
.ft B
example% dd if\|=\|/dev/rmt0 of\|=\|x ibs\|=\|800 cbs\|=\|80 conv\|=\|ascii,lcase
.ft R
.LP
Note: the use of raw magtape:
.B dd
is especially suited to
.SM I/O
on the raw physical devices because it
allows reading and writing in arbitrary record sizes.
.SH Sun386i EXAMPLES
The following write the file
.I filename
to a 3.5-inch floppy and read from the floppy into a file
.IR filename ,
respectively:
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
.ft B
example%  dd  if=\fIfilename\fP of=/dev/rfd0c bs=9k
example%  dd  if=/dev/rfd0c of=\fIfilename\fP bs=9k
.ft P
.fi
.sp .5
.RE
.LP
Sun386i files names are shown in
.BR fdformat (1).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cp (1),
.BR fdformat (1),
.BR tr (1V)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.IB f \|+\| p " records in(out):"
Numbers of full and partial records read(written).
.SH BUGS
The
.SM ASCII/EBCDIC
conversion tables are taken from the 256 character standard in the
.SM CACM
Nov, 1968.  The
.B ibm
conversion, while less blessed as a standard,
corresponds better to certain
.SM IBM
print train conventions.  There is no universal solution.
.LP
The 
.B block
and 
.B unblock
options cannot be combined with the
.BR ascii ,
.B ebcdic
or
.BR ibm .
Invalid combinations 
silently ignore all but the last mutually-exclusive keyword.
.\"Not all combinations of \fBconv={\fIarg\fP\|,\fR .\|.\|.\|\fB}\fR
.\"work.  Some are silently ignored; for example:
.\".TP 15
.\".B conv={ibm,block} 
.\"ignores the \fBibm\fP option.
.\".TP 15
.\".B conv={ibm,ebcdic,ascii},{block,unblock}
.\"fails.
