.\" @(#)defaultsedit.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH DEFAULTSEDIT 1 "15 February 1988"
.SH NAME
defaultsedit, defaults_from_input, defaults_to_indentpro, defaults_to_mailrc, indentpro_to_defaults, input_from_defaults, lockscreen_default, mailrc_to_defaults, scrolldefaults, stty_from_defaults \- create or edit default settings for SunView utilities
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B defaultsedit
[
.I generic-tool-arguments
]
.LP
.B defaults_from_input
.LP
.B defaults_to_indentpro
.LP
.B defaults_to_mailrc
.LP
.B indentpro_to_defaults
.LP
.B input_from_defaults
.LP
.B lockscreen_default
.LP
.B mailrc_to_defaults
.LP
.B scrolldefaults
.LP
.B stty_from_defaults
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
These commands are available with the
.TX SVBG
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "SunView environment, changing default settings \(em \fLdefaultsedit\fR"
.IX defaultsedit "" "\fLdefaultsedit\fR \(em changing SunView default settings"
.IX edit sunview "" "SunView defaults \(em \fLdefaultsedit\fR"
.LP
.B  defaultsedit
is a SunView application that
provides a convenient means for
inspecting and setting default
parameters.  It can be viewed as an alternative to
the traditional
.SM UNIX
operating system
.BI . \|*rc
files that contain initialization options for various commands.
Currently, you can use
.B defaultsedit
to manipulate options to the programs
.BR indent (1),
.BR mail (1)
and
.BR mailtool (1),
.BR stty (1V),
and
.BR defaultsedit ,
as well as the
.IR menu ,
.IR scrollbar ,
.I text subwindow
and
.I tty subwindow
packages, and the
SunView
environment itself. 
.LP
The remaining commands are used by
.B defaultsedit
to perform conversions and other functions; they can also be
invoked directly from the shell:
.RS
.TP 20
.PD 0
.B defaults_from_input
update window-system I/O defaults from current system values
.TP
.B defaults_to_indentpro
update 
.BR indent (1)
defaults in the database from the
.B \&.indent.pro
file
.TP
.B defaults_to_mailrc
update the
.B \&.mailrc
file from the defaults database
.TP
.B indentpro_to_defaults
update
.B indent
defaults from the
.B \&.indent.pro
file
.TP
.B input_from_defaults
update current system values for window-system I/O from
defaults database
.TP
.B lockscreen_default
apply current default for 
.BR lockscreen (1)
display program
.TP
.B mailrc_to_defaults
update
.BR mail (1)
and/or
.BR mailtool (1)
defaults from the
.B \&.mailrc
file
.TP
.B scrolldefaults
a SunView application that lets you try out different
settings from the
.B Scrollbar
category interactively
.TP
.B stty_from_defaults
set terminal (\s-1TTY\s0) options from defaults database
.PD
.RE
.LP
Any program or package
that a user can customize by setting or
changing a parameter could be
written so as to get its initialization options
from the defaults database.
For further information, see
.TX SVSPG .
.br
.ne 8
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.B defaultsedit
accepts all of the generic tool arguments discussed in
.BR sunview (1).
.if t .ne 10
.SH USAGE
.LP
This only applies to
.BR defaultsedit .
.SS Subwindows
.LP
.B defaultsedit
consists of four subwindows.
From top to bottom they are:
.TP 15
control
Contains the name of the category currently
displayed, and buttons labeled
.SM SAVE\s0, 
.SM QUIT\s0, 
.SM RESET\s0,
and 
.SM EDIT 
.SM ITEM\s0. 
To change the category,
click the
.SM LEFT
mouse button on the word 
.SM CATEGORY\s0,
or use the menu that pops up when you click the
.SM RIGHT
mouse button.
.TP
message
A small text subwindow where messages from
.B defaultsedit
are displayed.
.TP
parameters
Shows all current default parameter
names with corresponding values. Clicking the
.SM LEFT
mouse button over a parameter
displays a help string 
in the message subwindow. 
.TP
edit
A small text subwindow which enables text editing
of parameter values. 
This is useful for very long text values,
such as a long mailing list.
.SS Control Panel
.TP 15
.SM SAVE
Save the current values that differ from the standard defaults
in your private database \(em that is, the
.B .\|defaults
file in your home directory.
.TP
.SM QUIT
Exit without saving any changes.
.TP
.SM RESET
Reset the default parameters of the current category to
the values in your private database.
This is useful if you
change some values, then change your mind and want to
restore the original values.
.TP
.SM EDIT ITEM
Clicking the
.SM RIGHT
mouse button over the
.SM EDIT
.SM ITEM
button brings up a menu with three choices: 
.SM COPY 
.SM ITEM\s0, 
.SM DELETE 
.SM ITEM
and
.SM EDIT 
.SM LABEL\s0.
Only text or numeric items can be edited.
Note: edits made using this menu will appear
only in your private
defaults database, not in the master database. 
The three editing operations are described below.
.TP
.SM COPY ITEM
Choosing
.SM COPY
.SM ITEM
will duplicate the current item.
You can then edit both the label and the value of the
newly created item.  Only items with text or
numeric values can be copied in this way.
.SM COPY 
.SM ITEM
is useful when you want to change the number of
instances of a certain type of item \(em
for example, to insert
a new mail alias into your defaults database.
.TP
.SM DELETE ITEM
Choosing
.SM DELETE 
.SM ITEM
will delete the current 
item from your private database.
It cannot be permanently deleted if
the corresponding node is present in the
master database. However, you can make it behave like
an undefined node by giving it the special value
.IR \\255Undefined\\255 .
.TP
.SM EDIT LABEL
Choosing
.SM EDIT
.SM LABEL
allows you to edit the label of the current item.  
When you choose
.SM EDIT
.SM LABEL\s0,
the label of the current item changes from 
bold to normal face.  Then you can select the
label and edit it as a normal panel text item.
.LP
Note: SunView starts up faster when you
set the
.B Private_only
parameter in the
.B Defaults
category to
.SM
.BR TRUE ,
in which case only your private
.B \&.defaults
file is read.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 20
.SM DEFAULTS_FILE
The value of this environment variable
indicates the file from which private
SunView
defaults are read.  When it is undefined,
defaults are read from the 
.B .\|defaults
file in your home directory.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/defaults/*.d
System-wide parameters and their standard settings.
Each file is a category in
.BR defaultsedit .
.TP
.B ~/.defaults
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR indent (1),
.BR lockscreen (1),
.BR mail (1),
.BR mailtool (1),
.BR stty (1V),
.BR sunview (1)
.LP
.TX SVBG
.LP
.TX SVSPG
.SH BUGS
Editing of choice items or categories is not supported by
.BR defaultsedit .
Neither is editing of the master defaults
database \(em to add a new
program to the master defaults database, you have to
edit a master defaults textfile.
.LP
.BR defaultsedit
reorders mail aliases that appear in the
.B .mailrc
file.  This can adversely affect recursive mail aliases.  To
avoid this, use the
.BR source
command for
.BR mail (1)
to include a file containing such aliases.
