.\" @(#)deroff.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; 
.TH DEROFF 1 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
deroff \- remove nroff, troff, tbl and eqn constructs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B deroff
[
.B \-w
]
.I filename
.B .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I Text
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "deroff command"  ""  "\fLderoff\fP \(em remove \fLtroff\fR constructs"
.IX delete n ""  "\fLnroff\fR, \fLtroff\fR, \fLtbl\fR and \fLeqn\fR constructs \(em \fLderoff\fR"
.IX remove n ""  "\fLnroff\fR, \fLtroff\fR, \fLtbl\fR and \fLeqn\fR constructs \(em \fLderoff\fR"
.IX "nroff utilities"  deroff "\fLderoff\fR \(em remove constructs"  "\fLnroff\fP utilities"
.IX "troff utilities"  deroff "\fLderoff\fR \(em remove constructs"  "\fLtroff\fP utilities"
.IX tbl  "" "\fLtbl\fR \(em remove constructs \(em \fLderoff\fR"
.IX eqn "" "\fLeqn\fP \(em remove constructs \(em \fLderoff\fR"
.IX "document production" deroff "" "\fLderoff\fR \(em delete \fLtroff\fR, \fLtbl\fR and \fLeqn\fR constructs"
.B deroff
reads each file in sequence and removes all
.B nroff
and
.B troff
command lines, backslash constructions, macro definitions,
.B eqn
constructs (between
.SB \&.EQ
and
.SB \&.EN
lines or between
delimiters), and table descriptions and writes
the remainder on the standard
output.
.B deroff
follows chains of included files
.RB ( \&.so
and
.B \&.nx
commands); if a file has already been included, a
.B \&.so
is ignored and a
.B \&.nx
terminates execution.  If no input file is
given,
.B deroff
reads from the standard input file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-w
Generate a word list, one word per line. A `word'
is a string of letters,
digits, and apostrophes, beginning with a letter;
apostrophes are removed.
All other characters are ignored.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR eqn (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR tbl (1),
.BR troff (1)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B deroff
is not a complete
.B troff
interpreter, so it can be confused by subtle constructs.
Most errors result in too much rather than too little output.
.LP
.B deroff
does not work well with files that use
.B \&.so
to source in the standard macro package files.
