.\" @(#)desktop.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.\" man page for desktop
.\" Received 9/25/90
.\" Updated 10/30/90
.TH DESKTOP 1 "14 December 1990"
.SH NAME
desktop \- switch the window system to be invoked upon login
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B desktop 
[
.B openwin
]
[
.B sunview
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available beginning with SunOS 4.1.1 Rev B.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B desktop 
switches the window system to be invoked upon your login between
OpenWindows and SunView.
This only applies if the user is using the default
.B .cshrc
file supplied from
.B /usr/lib/Cshrc
and has not modified the window system invocation code section.
With no arguments,
.B desktop 
prompts you to enter the window system you want invoked.
The desired window system can also be supplied on the command line.
.LP
If the
.B add_user (8)
program is used to add a new user's account,
the
.B /usr/lib/Cshrc
file is copied into the file
.B .cshrc
in the user's home directory.
Alternatively, this may be done manually.
In either case, if this file's window system invocation code is not
thereafter modified,
.B desktop
switches window systems as specified.
.LP
A confirmation message is displayed for 
the window system chosen.
An instructional message is then displayed indicating
the steps to execute to activate this:  exiting the system and logging back in.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B openwin
Modify window system invocation code in
.B ~/.cshrc
to execute OpenWindows.
.TP
.B sunview
Modify window system invocation code in
.B ~/.cshrc
to execute SunView.
.SH FILES
.TP 22
.PD 0
.B /usr/lib/Cshrc 
default file for setting up a user's environment
.TP
.B ~/.cshrc
user's own file for setting up their environment
.PD	
