.\" @(#)df.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH DF 1V "16 September 1989"
.SH NAME
df \- report free disk space on file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B df
[
.B \-a
]
[
.B \-i
]
[
.B \-t
.I type
] [
.IR filesystem .\|.\|.
] [
.IR filename .\|.\|.
]
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/df
[
.B \-t
] [
.IR filesystem .\|.\|.
] [
.IR filename .\|.\|.
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "df command"  ""  "\fLdf\fP \(em display free space"
.IX "file system"  "free space display"
.IX "file system"  "display free space"
.IX display  "free space in file system"
.LP
.B df
displays the amount of disk space occupied by currently mounted file systems,
the amount of used and available space,
and how much of the file system's total capacity has been used.
Used without arguments,
.B df
reports on all mounted file systems, 
producing something like:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
example% df
.ta \w'Filesystem'u+2n +\w'kbytes'u+2n +\w'used'u+2n +\w'avail'u+2n +\w'capacity'u+2n
Filesystem	kbytes	used	avail	capacity	Mounted on
/dev/ip0a	 7445	 4714	1986	70%		/
/dev/ip0g	42277	35291	2758	93%		/usr
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
Note:
.BR used + avail
is less than the amount of space in the file system
(kbytes); this is because the system
reserves a fraction of the space
in the file system to allow its file
system allocation routines to work well.
The amount reserved is typically about 10%;
this may be adjusted using
.BR tunefs (8).
When all the space on a file system except for this reserve is
in use, only the super-user can allocate new files and data blocks
to existing files.  When a file system is overallocated in this way,
.B df
may report that the file system is more than 100% utilized.
.LP
If arguments to
.B df
are disk partitions (for example,
.BR /dev/ip0a s
or path names,
.B df
produces a report on the
file system containing the named file. Thus
.RB ` "df ." '
shows the amount of space on the file system containing the current
directory.
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.I System V
version of
.B df
works in the same manner as above but prints 
only the amount of available space 
(in 512 byte units) and the number of free inodes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Report on all filesystems including the uninteresting
ones which have zero total blocks. (that is, 
.IR automounter )
.TP
.B \-i
Report the number of used and free inodes.
Print
.RB ` * '
if no information is available.
.TP
.BI \-t " type"
Report on filesystems of a given
.I type
(for example,
.B nfs
or
.BR 4.2 ).
.SH SYSTEM V OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-t
Report the total allocated space figures.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/mtab
List of filesystems currently mounted.
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR du (1V),
.BR mtab (5),
.BR quot (8),
.BR tunefs (8)
