.\"	@(#)diffmk.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2 6.2 83/09/02
.TH DIFFMK 1 "18 January 1988"
.SH NAME
diffmk \- mark differences between versions of a troff input file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B diffmk
.I oldfile newfile markedfile
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I Text
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "diffmk command"  ""  "\fLdiffmk\fP \(em add change marks to documents"
.IX  "document production"  diffmk  ""  "\fLdiffmk\fP \(em add change marks"
.LP
.B diffmk
compares two versions of a file and creates a
third version that includes \*(lqchange mark\*(rq
.RB ( .mc )
commands for
.BR nroff (1)
and 
.BR troff (1).
.I oldfile
and
.I newfile
are the old and new versions of the file.
.B diffmk
generates
.IR markedfile ,
which, contains the text from
.I newfile
with 
.BR troff (1)
\*(lqchange mark\*(rq requests
.RB ( .mc )
inserted where 
.I newfile
differs from 
.IR oldfile .
When
.I markedfile
is formatted,
changed or inserted text is shown by 
.B |
at the right margin of each line.
The position of deleted text is shown by a single
.BR * .
.LP
.B diffmk
can also be used in conjunction with the proper 
.B troff
requests to produce program listings with marked changes.
In the following command line:
.IP
.ft B
diffmk old.c new.c marked.c ; nroff reqs marked.c | pr
.ft R
.LP 
the file
.B reqs
contains the following
.B troff
requests:
.RS
.ft B
.nf
\&.pl \|1
\&.ll \|77
\&.nf
\&.eo
\&.nh
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
which eliminate page breaks, adjust the line length, set no-fill
mode, ignore escape characters, and turn off hyphenation,
respectively.
.LP
If the characters 
.B | 
and
.B *
are inappropriate, you might run 
.I markedfile 
through 
.BR sed (1V)
to globally change them.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR diff (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR sed (1V),
.BR troff (1)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Aesthetic considerations may dictate
manual adjustment of some output.
File differences involving only formatting
requests may produce undesirable
output, that is, replacing
.B \&.sp
by
.B \&.sp 2
will
produce a \*(lqchange mark\*(rq on the preceding
or following line of output.
