.\" @(#)dis.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from System V
.TH DIS 1 "19 February 1988"
.SH NAME
dis \- object code disassembler for COFF
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dis
.RB [ " \-o " ]
.RB [ " \-V " ]
.RB [ " \-L " ]
.RB [ " \-d "
.IR sec " ]"
.RB [ " \-da "
.IR sec " ]"
.RB [ " \-F "
.IR function " ]"
.RB [ " \-t "
.IR sec " ]"
.RB [ " \-l "
.IR string " ]"
.I coff-file .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "dis command" "" "\fLdis\fR command"
.LP
The 
.B dis
command
produces an assembly-language listing
of
.IR coff-file ,
which may be any object file in
.SM COFF
format, or an archive of
.SM COFF
object files.
.PP
The listing includes assembly statements and
an octal or hexadecimal representation of the binary
that produced those statements.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-o
Print numbers in octal.  The default is hexadecimal.
.PP
.TP
.B \-V
Print, on standard error, the version number of the disassembler
being executed.
.TP
.B \-L
Lookup source labels in the symbol table for
subsequent printing.
This option works only if the file was compiled with
additional debugging information (e.g., the 
.B \-g
option of
.BR cc (1V)).
.TP
.BI \-d " sec"
Disassemble the named section as data,
printing the offset of the data from the
beginning of the section.
.TP
.BI \-da " sec"
Disassemble the named section as data,
printing the actual address of the data.
.TP
.BI \-F " function"
Disassemble only the named function in each object file
specified on the command line.
The
.B \-F
option may be specified multiple times on the command line.
.TP
.BI \-t " sec"
Disassemble the named section as text.
.TP
.BI \-l " string"
Disassemble the library file specified by
.IR string .
For example,
.B "dis \-l x \-l z"
disassembles
.B libx.a
and
.BR libz.a .
All libraries are
assumed to be in
.BR /usr/lib .
.DT
.br
.PP
If the
.BR \-d ,
.B \-da
or
.BR \-t
options are specified,
only those named
sections from each
user-supplied file name
will be disassembled.
Otherwise, all sections
containing text will
be disassembled.
.PP
On output, a number enclosed in brackets
at the beginning of a line,
such as 
.BR [5] ,
represents that the break-pointable line number
starts with the following instruction.
These line numbers will be printed only if the file was compiled with
additional debugging information (e.g., the
.B \-g
option of
.BR cc (1V)).
An expression such as
.B <40>
in the operand field or in the symbolic disassembly,
following a relative displacement
for control transfer instructions,
is the computed address
within the section to which
control will be transferred.
A function name
will appear in the first column,
followed by
.BR (\|) .
.SH "FILES"
.B /usr/lib
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cc (1V)
.BR coff (5)
.SH NOTES
Because the assembler does not generate or support 8-bit symbol
names, it is inappropriate to make
.B dis
8-bit clean.
See
.BR as (1).
