.\" @(#)dos.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH DOS 1 "19 February 1988"
.SH NAME
dos \- SunView window for IBM PC/AT applications
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dos
[
.B \-b
] [
.BI \-p " config"
] [
.B \-q
] [
.B \-s
] [
.BI \-update " time"
] [
.B \-w 
] [
.BI \-c " command"
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX dos "" "\fLdos\fR \(em window for IBM PC/AT applications"
.LP
A window created by
.B dos
looks and acts like the screen of an
.SM IBM PC/AT
or compatible computer running
.SM MS-DOS
3.3, except that it has expanded features. It allows
sharing of files with the SunOS operating system, copying and pasting data between 
windows, and piping and redirection.  You may run any reasonable number of 
.SM DOS
windows simultaneously.
.LP
Shrinking or expanding the 
window will not change the contents to accommodate the new size.
.SH USAGE
.SS Menu
The menu available in the window by pressing the right mouse button
allows various controls over the work in the window. 
.B Edit
allows you to copy and paste between windows.  The 
.B Show Screen
menu item selects the type of screen display\(emeither Hercules, \s-1CGA\s0, 
or Monochrome.  Use the \s-1DOS MODE\s0 command to set the corresponding
\s-1DOS\s0 display mode.  See the
.I Sun386i User's Guide
or on-line help for more information.  The
.B Mouse
menu item allows you to control whether the mouse operates like a Microsoft
or compatible mouse or in normal SunView fashion (see
.I Sun386i Advanced Skills
for instructions on enabling Microsoft mouse driver software).
The
.B Send to printer
menu item allows you to send queued jobs to the print spooler.
.B Sound
controls the volume of sounds from the \s-1DOS\s0 window.
.B Device
allows you to select which disks and other devices will be used and which 
are to be considered write only.
The 
.B Reboot \s-1DOS\s0 Window
item is equivalent to restarting the window.
This can also be accomplished by pressing the
.SM CONTROL,
.SM ALT,
and
.SM DELETE 
keys simultaneously.
.LP
.SS Printer Assignments
.SM DOS
uses three printer designations: 
.SM
.BR LPT1 ,
.SM
.BR LPT2 ,
and
.SM
.BR LPT3 .
The default settings are: files sent to
.SB LPT1
go to the default system printer. Files sent to
.SB LPT2
are appended to the file 
.B lpt-2 
in your home directory.
Epson-compatible print jobs can be sent to
.SB LPT3
to yield Epson FX-80 quality output on a Postscript printer.
.SS Drives
.LP
The \s-1DOS\s0 command
.B FORMAT A: /S
works only if the current working directory contains \s-1DOS\s0 files.
This is usually Drive C and sometimes Drive A.
.TP 18
Drive A 
The Sun386i 3.5-inch diskette drive, used for reading
.SM PC
format diskettes onto the hard disk and writing data to be stored on floppy.
Drive A is not accessible across a network.
.TP
Drive B
An optional 5.25-inch diskette drive.  Same restrictions as Drive A.
.TP
Drive C 
A virtual disk stored in the
.B ~/pc/C:
file.
Files written to Drive C cannot be accessed from the SunOS operating
system.
Drive C is generally intended
for storage of applications and copy protected software but not data.
To \s-1DOS\s0, drive C is a 20-megabyte drive. You can install copy-protected
software on drive C, but not on other drives.
.TP
Drives D through S 
Equivalents of the SunOS operating system directories.  They can be
accessed from either the
.SM DOS
or SunOS operating systems, and can contain any number of files and
other directories.  The SunOS directories referenced by
.SM DOS
drives other 
than D, H, and R (described below) are user-defined 
(using the
.SB DOS EXTEND
command).
.br
.ne 8
.RS
.TP
Drive D 
The current SunOS directory when the
.SM DOS
window was opened.  May subsequently be changed to any other directory.
.TP
Drive H 
The home directory of the user who opened the window.  May subsequently be changed to any directory in the user's home directory tree.
.TP
Drive R 
Initially equivalent to the root directory of the SunOS operating
system.
.RE
.LP
.SS File Sharing between SunOS and DOS Systems
File names under
.SM DOS
consist of 8 characters, a period, and a 3 
character extension.  When a SunOS filename does not comply with 
these rules, its
name is modified by placing a tilde (~) in an appropriate location 
so that the
file name conforms to
.SM DOS
specifications while remaining unique.
It is recommended that filenames conform to
.SM DOS
requirements for files to be used in both the SunOS and
.SM DOS
operating systems.
.LP
Because the SunOS and
.SM DOS
operating systems
use different conventions for 
.SM RETURN
characters, 
.B dos2unix
and
.BR unix2dos 
are provided to convert text files between the two formats.  
.SS Command Sharing between SunOS and DOS Systems
The 
.B /etc/dos/unix
directory contains a list of SunOS commands accessible from
.SM DOS.
Other SunOS commands not in this list can be executed from
.SM DOS
with the command
.RB ` unix 
.IR command '.
SunOS commands always use SunOS filename conventions and
.SM DOS
commands always use
.SM DOS
filename conventions, regardless of whether either type of command is executed from 
the SunOS or
.SM DOS
operating system.
Only
.SM DOS
commands can use drives A and C.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Boots (loads)
.SM DOS
and opens a window using the
.SB AUTOEXEC.BAT
and
.SB CONFIG.SYS
files instead of
.BR ~/pc/.quickpc .
A
.SM DOS
sign-on message is displayed in the window.
.TP 
.B \-s
Boot
.SM DOS
and save a new
.B .quickpc
unless
.BR \s-1C:AUTOEXEC.BAT\s0 ,
.BR \s-1C:CONFIG.SYS\s0 ,
or
.B /etc/dos/defaults/rom 
has a date newer than the
.B .quickpc
file (see the
.B \-s
option).
.TP
.BI \-p " config"
Loads an alternate file instead of
.BR setup.pc .
.TP
.BI \-q 
Forces
.B dos
to read settings from the 
.B .quickpc
file (as specified in 
.BR setup.pc )
even if 
.BR \s-1C:AUTOEXEC.BAT\s0 ,
.BR \s-1C:CONFIG.SYS\s0 ,
or 
.BR /etc/dos/defaults/rom
have been updated since you last typed 
.BR "dos \-s" . 
.TP 
.B \-s
Boot \s-1DOS\s0 and save a new
.B .quickpc
file under the name specified on the \s-1SAVE\s0 line in 
.BR ~/pc/setup.pc .
Use this option after making changes to drive C's
.BR \s-1AUTOEXEC.BAT\s0
or
.BR \s-1CONFIG.SYS\s0 .
Exits \s-1DOS\s0 after saving the 
.B .quickpc
file.
.TP
.BI \-update
Gives you a new drive C and a new
.B setup.pc
using the settings from
.B /etc/dos/defaults/C:
and
.BR /etc/dos/defaults/setup.pc ,
respectively.
.TP
.BI \-w 
Runs
.SM DOS
text-only commands and applications in the current SunView Commands window.
.TP
.BI \-c " command"
Executes the given \s-1DOS\s0 command in the newly created window.
If you use the 
.BR \-c 
option,
.BR \-c 
and the command that follows it must be the last items on
the command line.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 15
\s-1DOS_LOCKING\s0
This environment variable determines which locking service
is used to lock drive C for write access. If it is set to on, \s-1DOS\s0
uses the locking service on the server where the home directory is located.
This locks drive C for access from any \s-1DOS\s0 window on the network. If
it is set to off, \s-1DOS\s0 uses the local system's locking service. This locks
drive C only for access from \s-1DOS\s0 windows running on the local system.
The default is on. Some servers
(for example, some \s-1VAX\s0/Ultrix systems) do not provide an
\s-1NFS\s0 locking service.
For home directories stored on these servers, set the variable to 
off to avoid an error message when a \s-1DOS\s0 window starts up.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
\s-1DOS_PRINTER\s0
The value of this environment variable indicates 
the timeout (in seconds) for printing.
A value of 20 (the default) indicates that jobs will be sent to the \s-1UNIX\s0
print spooler after 20 seconds of no printing activity from \s-1DOS\s0
to that printer.
A value of 0 indicates that the spooler must be flushed manually from the menu
in the window.
.TP
.SM DOSLOOKUP
.br
If on, this environment variable indicates that a command
should be tried as a
.SM DOS
command if not recognized by the SunOS system.
If
.SM DOS
supports the command, a
.SM DOS
window is created and the command executed in that window.
If the command does not exist, the normal SunOS error message results. 
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /etc/dos/unix
Files in this directory indicate which SunOS commands are accessible from
.SM DOS\s0.
.TP
.B /etc/dos/defaults/.quickpc
Default
.B .quickpc
file copied into a user's home PC directory
.RB ( ~/pc )
the first time a \s-1DOS\s0 window is started.  Not used by \s-1DOS\s0
in this location.
.TP
.B /etc/dos/defaults/setup.pc
Default
.B setup.pc
file copied into a user's home \s-1DOS\s0 directory
.RB ( ~/pc )
the first time a \s-1DOS\s0 window is started.  Not used by \s-1DOS\s0
in this location.
.TP
.B /etc/dos/defaults/boards.pc
Stores information about
.SM IBM
.SM PC/XT/AT\c
-compatible boards installed in your system.
.TP
.B /etc/dos/defaults/C:
Default drive C file copied into a user's home PC directory 
the first time a
.SM DOS
window is started.
.TP
.B ~/pc/autoexec.bat
Contains drive assignments, search paths, and other startup commands.
Searched after
.SB C:AUTOEXEC.BAT
and
.SM
.BR D:AUTOEXEC.BAT .
.TP
.SB C:AUTOEXEC.BAT
Contains commands to access system printers and special drives.
You should not need to change the
.SB AUTOEXEC.BAT
on drive C.
Put your changes in the
.SB AUTOEXEC.BAT
on drive H (in your home directory).
.SB C:AUTOEXEC.BAT
is not accessible from the SunOS system.
.TP
.SB D:AUTOEXEC.BAT
If an
.SB AUTOEXEC.BAT
file exists in the current directory,
.SM DOS
tries execute faster running
.SM
.BR C:AUTOEXEC.BAT .
.TP
.SB C:CONFIG.SYS
Specifies device drivers and other system parameters.
.BR \s-1C:CONFIG.SYS\s0
is not accessible from  the SunOS system.
.TP
.B ~/pc/setup.pc
Defines printers, standard PC devices, and drive C.
One or more of these files may exist, under various names which you assign.
.TP
.B ~/pc/.quickpc
An image of DOS as last saved with
.B dos 
.BR -s ,
including all \s-1DOS\s0 environment variables and drivers that were
in effect at that time.  \s-1DOS\s0 normally reads this file at startup.
.TP
.B ~/pc/C:
A user's personal copy of drive C.
.PD
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B "Cannot save \fIfilename\fP quick-start file."
The 
.B dos 
command was unable to save the specified quick-start file.
Check the \s-1SAVE\s0 setting in your PC setup file
(normally \fB~/pc/setup.pc\fP).
Also check file access permissions on the specified quick-start file.
.TP 10
.B Cannot load \fIfilename\|\fP quick-start file.
.B dos 
was unable to read the specified quick-start file.
Check the \s-1SAVE\s0 setting in your \fBsetup.pc\fP file.  Also check
file access permissions on the specified quick-start file.
.TP
.B "Possible software incompatibility. Unsupported 286 instruction \fIinstruction\fP at \fIaddress\|\fP."
.PD 0
.
.TP
.B Possible software incompatibility. Unsupported 386 instruction.
.PD 0
.
.TP
.B Possible software incompatibility. Segment wrap.
.PD 0
.
.TP
.B "Possible software incompatibility. Two-byte opcode\|."
The application you are running was written specifically
for 80286 or 80386 machines.  Software run from a
.SM DOS
window must be compatible with 8086 systems.
.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B "Copying default configuration files into your home directory\|."
This is the first time you have run the
.B dos
command.  A
.B ~/pc
directory is being set up, and 
.SM DOS\s0-related
files are being copied into it.
.LP
.B "Another \s-1DOS\s0 window already has access to \fIdevice\fP"
.br
.B "\s-1IRQ\s0 level \fInumber\fP is still in use by another \s-1DOS\s0 window\|."
.RS
Your PC configuration file (normally
.BR ~/pc/setup.pc )
is requesting access to a physical device that another
.SM DOS
window is using.
.RE
.TP
.B "Port number \fInumber\fP out of range for \fIboard\fP board.
The port number specified in the
.B /etc/dos/defaults/boards.pc
is invalid.
.TP
.B "\s-1IRQ\s0 value \fInumber\fP out of range for \fIboard\fP board.
The interrupt level specified in the
.B /etc/dos/defaults/boards.pc
is invalid.
.TP
.B "\s-1IRQ\s0 level \fInumber\fP is in use by a Unix driver\|."
There is a Unix driver servicing the board you are trying to attach
to \s-1DOS\s0.  You are using the wrong \s-1IRQ\s0 level or you should
use the driver instead.
.TP
.B "Interrupt level \fInumber\fP is used by \s-1DOS\s0 to support \fIdevice\fP"
The interrupt level specified in the
.B /etc/dos/defaults/boards.pc
conflicts with an interrupt value currently being used by either
a physical or emulated
.SM DOS
device.
.TP
.B "I/O address range \fIaddress\fP-\fIaddress\fP requested for \fIname\fP board already in use by \fIdevice\fP\|."
The address range specified in the
.B /etc/dos/defaults/boards.pc
conflicts with range currently being used by either a physical or 
emulated \s-1DOS\s0 device.
.TP
.B "Cannot share \fIdevice\fP with a hardware interrupt or \s-1DMA\s0 channel\|."
A shared device specified in the
.B /etc/dos/defaults/boards.pc
was also assigned an interrupt level in this file.  Shared
devices cannot be assigned interrupt levels.
.TP
.B "Couldn't find \fIname\fP board in boards.pc\|."
A file specified in the PC setup file (normally
.BR ~/pc/setup.pc )
is not listed in the
.B /etc/dos/defaults/boards.pc
file. Check the
.B setup.pc
file, or add an entry for the board in
.BR boards.pc .
.TP
.B "\s-1ROM\s0 is newer than .quickpc. Rebooting \fIprogram_name\fP\|."
Save a new \fB.quickpc\fP file by issuing the command \fBdos \-s\fP.
.LP 
.B Warning: Your personal drive C (\fIpathname\fP)
.B is not protected against 
.B simultaneous access by more than
.B one workstation. Ask your system
.B administrator to upgrade 
.B \fIserver\fP to use the lock manager.
.B Until your home directory 
.B server is updated with this program,
.B do not use \fIprogram_name\fP
.B  when you are logged into more 
.B than one workstation.
.sp .5
.RS
The system on the network where your drive C is stored has not
protected the drive against access by \s-1DOS\s0 windows in other
workstations on the network.  This usually means that the server
where your home directory is stored does not provide an \s-1NFS\s0 locking
service.  To avoid this error message, set the environment variable
\s-1DOS_LOCKING\s0 to off.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dos2unix (1),
.BR unix2dos (1)
.LP
.I Sun386i User's Guide
.br
.I Sun386i Advanced Skills
.br
.I Sun \s-1MS-DOS\s0 Reference Manual
