.\" @(#)dos2unix.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH DOS2UNIX 1 "7 October 1990"
.SH NAME
dos2unix \- convert text file from DOS format to ISO format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dos2unix
[
.B \-ascii
]
[
.B \-iso
]
[
.B \-7
]
.I originalfile 
.I convertedfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX dos2unix "" "\fLdos2unix\fR \(em convert text file from DOS format to ISO format"
.LP
.B dos2unix
converts characters in the
.SM DOS
extended character set to the corresponding 
.SM ISO
standard characters.
.LP
This command can be invoked from either
.SM DOS
or SunOS.
However, the filenames must conform to
the conventions of the environment in which the command is invoked.  
.LP
If the original file and the converted file are the same, 
.B dos2unix
will rewrite the original file after converting it.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-ascii
Removes extra carriage returns and converts end of file  characters in
.SM DOS
format text files to conform to SunOS requirements.
.TP
.B \-iso
This is the default.  It converts characters in the
.SM DOS
extended character set to the corresponding 
.SM ISO
standard characters.
.TP 
.B \-7
Convert 8 bit
.SM DOS
graphics characters to 7 bit space characters so that 
SunOS can read the file.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B "File \fIfilename\fP not found, or no read permission
The input file you specified does not
exist, or you do not have read permission (check with the SunOS
.B ls \-l
command).
.TP
.B "Bad output filename \fIfilename\fP, or no write permission
The output file you specified
is either invalid, or you do not have write permission for that
file or the directory that contains it.  Check also that the drive or diskette 
is not write-protected.
.TP
.B Error while writing to temporary file
An error occurred while converting your file, possibly because 
there is not enough space on the current drive.  Check the amount of
space on the current drive using the DIR command.  Also be certain that
the default diskette or drive is write-enabled (not write-protected).
Note that when this error occurs, the original file remains intact.
.TP
.B Could not rename temporary file to \fIfilename\fP.
.PD 0
.
.TP
.B Translated temporary file name = \fIfilename\fP.
The program could not perform the final step in converting your
file. Your converted file is stored under the name indicated on the
second line of this message.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dos (1),
.BR unix2dos (1)
.sp .5
.I Sun386i Advanced Skills
.br
.I Sun MS-DOS Reference Manual
