.\" @(#)echo.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from 4.3 BSD and S5R2 6.2 9/2/83
.TH ECHO 1V "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
echo \- echo arguments to the standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B echo
[
.B \-n
]
[ 
.I argument 
.B .\|.\|.
]
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/echo
.I argument 
.B .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "System V commands" "\fLecho\fR"
.IX "echo command"  ""  "\fLecho\fP \(em echo arguments"
.LP
.B echo
writes its arguments on the standard output.  Arguments must be separated by 
.SM SPACE
characters or 
.SM TAB
characters, and terminated by a
.SM NEWLINE.
.LP
.B echo
is useful for producing diagnostics in shell programs and for writing constant
data on pipes.  If you are using the Bourne shell
.RB ( sh (1)),
you
can send diagnostics to the standard error file by typing: 
.RS
.B
echo .\|.\|.  >&2
.RE
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
.LP
Note: 
If 
.B /usr/5bin
is ahead of
.B /usr/bin
in the Bourne shell's search path, its built-in 
.B echo 
command mimics the System V version of 
.B echo
as described here.
.LP
.B echo
also
understands C \-like 
escape conventions; beware of conflicts with the shell's use of 
.RB ` \e ' :
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B \eb
.SM BACKSPACE
.TP
.B \ec
Print line without
.SM NEWLINE
.TP
.B \ef
.SM FORMFEED
.TP
.B \en
.SM NEWLINE
.TP
.B \er
.SM RETURN
.TP
.B \et
.SM TAB
.TP
.B \ev
vertical 
.SM TAB
.TP
.B \e\e
backslash
.TP
.BI \e n
the 8-bit character whose 
.SM ASCII
code is
the 1-, 2-, 3- or 4-digit octal number
.IR n .
The first digit must be zero.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-n
Do not add the 
.SM NEWLINE
to the output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.BR sh (1)
