.\" @(#)eject.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH EJECT 1 "29 May 1992"
.SH NAME
eject \- eject media device from drive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eject
[
.B \-dfnq
] [
.I device
|
.I nickname
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is not available on
Sun 386\fIi\fR systems.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX eject "" "\fLeject\fR \(em eject floppy diskette"
.IX "floppy diskette, eject with \(em \fLeject\fR"
.IX "diskette, eject with \(em \fLeject\fR"
.LP
.B eject
is used for those removable media devices that do not have
a manual eject button.
The device may be specified by its name or by a nickname; 
if no device is specified the default device is used.
.LP
Only devices that support
.B eject
under program control respond to this command.
.LP
It is not recommended to physically eject media from a device 
which contains mounted filesystems.
.B eject
automatically searches for any mounted
filesystems which reside on the device and attempts to
.B umount
them prior to ejecting the media
(see
.BR mount (8)).
If the unmount operation fails, 
.B eject
prints a warning message and exits.
The 
.B \-f
flag may be used to specify an eject
.I even
if the device contains mounted partitions.
.LP
.B eject
can also display its default device and a list of nicknames.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B \-d
Display the name of the default device to be ejected.
.TP
.B \-f
Force the device to eject even if it is busy.
.TP
.B \-n
Display the nickname to device name translation table.
.TP
.B \-q
Query to see if the media is present.
.TP
.I device
Specify which device to
.BR eject ,
by the name as it appears in the directory
.BR /dev .
.TP
.I nickname
Specify which device to
.BR eject ,
by its nickname as known to this command.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/rfd0c
.TP
.B /dev/rsr0
raw files
.TP
.B /dev/sr0
block files
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR fd (4S),
.BR sr (4S),
.BR mount (8)
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
.B eject
returns the following exit codes:
.RS
.TP
0
If the operation was successful or, with the
.B \-q
option, if the media
.I is
in the drive.
.TP
1
If the operation was 
unsuccessful
or, with the
.B \-q
option, if the media is
.I not
in the drive.
.TP
2
If invalid flags were specified.
.TP
3
If an
.B ioctl(\|)
request failed.
.RE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
A short help message is printed if an unknown flag is specified.
A diagnostic is printed
if the device name cannot be opened or does not support
.BR eject .
.LP
.B "Device Busy:"
An attempt was made to eject
a device that has a mounted filesystem.
A warning message is printed when doing a forced eject of a mounted device. However, if a device is doing a format, "eject -f" will not have any effect.
.SH BUGS
.LP
There should be a way to change the default on a per-user basis.
.\"
.\" FUTURES - add whatever devices, ie certain SCSI tapes, CDROMs
.\"
