'\" e
.\" @(#)eqn.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; 
.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.TH EQN 1 "20 January 1988"
.SH NAME
eqn, neqn, checkeq \- typeset mathematics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eqn
[
.BI \-d xy
] 
[
.BI \-f n
] 
[
.BI \-p n
] 
[
.BI \-s n
] 
[
.I filename
] .\|.\|.
.LP
.B neqn
[
.I filename
] .\|.\|.
.LP
.B checkeq
[
.I filename
] .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I Text
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "eqn command"  ""  "\fLeqn\fP \(em mathematical typesetting"
.IX "neqn command"  ""  "\fLneqn\fP \(em mathematical typesetting"
.IX "checkeq command"  ""  "\fLcheckeq\fP \(em check \fLeqn\fP constructs"
.IX "document production" eqn "" "\fLeqn\fR \(em set mathematical equations"
.LP
.B eqn
(and
.BR neqn )
are language processors to assist in
describing equations.
.B eqn
is a preprocessor for
.BR troff (1)
and is intended for devices that can print 
.BR troff 's
output.
.B neqn
is a preprocessor for
.BR nroff (1)
and is intended for use with terminals.  Usage is almost always:
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
.ft B
example% eqn \fIfilename\fP .\|.\|. | troff
example% neqn \fIfilename\fP .\|.\|. | nroff
.RE
.ft R
.fi
.LP
If no
.IR filename s
are specified, 
.B eqn
and
.B neqn
read from the standard input.
A line beginning with
.SB \&.EQ
marks the start of an equation;
the end of an equation is marked by a line beginning with
.BR \&.\s-1EN\s0 .
Neither of these lines is altered, so they may be defined in macro packages
to get centering, numbering, etc.  It is also possible to set two characters
as ``delimiters''; subsequent text between delimiters is also treated as
.B eqn
input.
.LP
.B checkeq
reports missing or unbalanced delimiters and
.SB \&.EQ/.EN
pairs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d "xy"
Set equation delimiters set to characters
.I x
and
.I y
with the command-line argument.  The more common way to do this is with
.BI delim xy
between
.SB \&.EQ
and
.BR \&.\s-1EN\s0 .
The left and right delimiters may be identical.
Delimiters are turned off by
.B delim off
appearing in the text.  All text
that is neither between delimiters nor between
.SB \&.EQ
and
.SB \&.EN
is passed through untouched.
.TP
.BI \-f "n"
Change font to
.I n
globally in the document.
The font can also be changed globally in the body of the document
by using the
.B gfont
directive.
.TP
.BI \-p "n"
Reduce subscripts and superscripts by
.I n
point sizes from the
previous size.  In the absence of the
.B \-p
option, subscripts and
superscripts are reduced by 3 point sizes from the previous size.
.TP
.BI \-s "n"
Change point size to
.I n
globally in the document.
The point size can also be changed globally in the body of the document
by using the
.B gsize
directive.
.SH "EQN LANGUAGE"
.LP
Tokens within
.B eqn
are separated by
braces, double quotes, tildes, circumflexes,
.SM SPACE\s0,
.SM TAB\s0,
or
.SM NEWLINE\s0
characters.  Braces {\|} are used for grouping;
generally speaking, anywhere a single character like
.I x
could appear, a
complicated construction enclosed in braces may be used instead. 
Tilde (\s+2\^~\^\s0) represents a full
.SM SPACE
in the output, circumflex (\s+2\^^\^\s0) half as much.
.LP
Subscripts and superscripts are produced with the keywords
.B sub
and
.BR sup .
Thus
.RB ` "x sub i" '
makes  $x sub i$ ,
.RB ` "a sub i sup 2" '
produces
$a sub i sup 2$,
and
.RB ` "e sup {x sup 2 + y sup 2}" '
gives
$e sup {x sup 2 + y sup 2}$.
.LP
Fractions are made with
.BR over :
.RB ` "a over b" '
yields
$a over b$.
.LP
.B sqrt
makes square roots:
.RB ` "1 over sqrt {ax sup 2 +bx+c}" '
results in
$1 over sqrt {ax sup 2 +bx+c}$ .
.LP
The keywords
.B from
and
.B to
introduce lower and upper
limits on arbitrary things:
$lim from {n-> inf} sum from 0 to n x sub i$
is made with
.RB ` "lim from {n\-> inf } sum from 0 to n x sub i" '.
.br
.ne 5
.LP
Left and right brackets, braces, etc., of the right height are made with
.B left
and
.BR right :
.RB ` "left [ x sup 2 + y sup 2 over alpha right ] ~=~1" '
produces
$left [ x sup 2 + y sup 2 over alpha right ] ~=~1$.
The
.B right
clause is optional.  Legal characters after
.B left
and
.B right
are braces, brackets, bars,
.B c
and
.B f
for ceiling and floor,
and \fB""\fR for nothing at all (useful for a right-side-only bracket).
.br
.ne 4
.LP
Vertical piles of things are made with 
.BR pile ,
.BR lpile ,
.BR cpile ,
and
.BR rpile :
.RB ` "pile {a above b above c}" '
produces
$pile {a above b above c}$.
There can be an arbitrary number of elements in a pile. 
.B lpile
left-justifies,
.B pile
and
.B cpile
center, with different vertical spacing, and
.B rpile
right justifies.
.LP
Matrices are made with
.BR matrix :
.RB ` "matrix { lcol { x sub i above y sub 2 } ccol { 1 above 2 } }" '
produces
$matrix { lcol { x sub i above y sub 2 } ccol { 1 above 2 } }$.
In addition, there is
.B rcol
for a right-justified column.
.LP
Diacritical marks are made with
.BR dot ,
.BR dotdot ,
.BR hat ,
.BR tilde ,
.BR bar ,
.BR vec ,
.BR dyad ,
and
.BR under :
.RB ` "x dot = f(t) bar" '
is
$x dot = f(t) bar$,
.RB ` "y dotdot bar ~=~ n under" '
is
$y dotdot bar ~=~ n under$,
and
.RB ` "x vec ~=~ y dyad" '
is
$x vec ~=~ y dyad$.
.LP
Sizes and font can be changed with
.B size
.I n
or
.B size
.BI \(+- n,
.BR roman ,
.BR italic ,
.BR bold ,
and
.BR font
.IR n .
Size and fonts can be changed globally in a document by
.B gsize
.I n
and
.B gfont
.IR n ,
or by the command-line arguments
.BI \-s n
and
.BI \-f n\fR.
.LP
Successive display arguments can be lined up.  Place
.B mark
before the desired lineup point in the first equation; place
.B lineup
at the place that is to line up vertically in subsequent equations.
.LP
Shorthands may be defined or existing keywords redefined with
.BI define :
.IP
.BI define " thing " % " replacement " %
.LP
defines a new token called
.I thing
which will be replaced by
.I replacement
whenever it appears thereafter.
The
.B %
may be any character that does not occur in
.IR replacement .
.LP
Keywords like
.B sum
.EQ
( sum ),
.EN
.B int
.EQ
( int ),
.EN
.B inf
.EQ
( inf ),
.EN
and shorthands like
.B >=
.EQ
(>=),
.EN
.B \->
.EQ
(->),
.EN
and
.B !=
.EQ
( != )
.EN
are recognized.
Greek letters are spelled out in the desired case, as in
.B alpha
or
.BR \s-1GAMMA\s0 .
Mathematical words like sin, cos,
and log are made Roman automatically.
.BR troff (1)
four-character escapes like \e(bu (\^\(bu\^) can be used anywhere.
Strings enclosed in double quotes
\fB"\fP.\|.\|.\fB"\fP
are passed through untouched;
this permits keywords to be entered as text, and can be used to communicate
with
.B troff
when all else fails.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tbl (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR eqnchar (7),
.BR ms (7)
.LP
.TX DOCS
.SH BUGS
To embolden digits, parens, etc., it is necessary to quote them,
as in `\fBbold "12.3"\fP'.
