.\" @(#)ex.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH EX 1 "18 December 1989"
.SH NAME
ex, edit, e \- line editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B ex
[
.B \-
] [
.B \-lLrRsvVxC
] [
.BI \-t " tag"
]
[
.BI +c " command"
\||\|
.BI \-c " command"
]
.IR " filename" .\|.\|.
.LP
.B edit
.RI [ " options " ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "ex"  ""  "\fLex\fP \(em line editor"
.IX "text editing"  "ex command"  ""  "\fLex\fP \(em line editor"
.IX "editing text"  "ex command"  ""  "\fLex\fP \(em line editor"
.IX "edit command"  ""  "\fLedit\fP \(em line editor"
.IX "text editing"  "edit command"  ""  "\fLedit\fP \(em line editor"
.IX "editing text"  "edit command"  ""  "\fLedit\fP \(em line editor"
.LP
.BR  ex ,
a line editor, is the root of a family of editors that includes
.BR edit ,
.BR ex (1),
and
.BR vi (1)
(the display editor).
In most cases
.B vi
is preferred for interactive use.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP  10
.B \- \||\| \-s
.PD
Suppress all interactive feedback to
the user (useful for processing
.B ex
scripts in shell files).
.TP
.B \-l
Set up for editing
.SM LISP
programs.
.TP
.B \-L
List the names of all files saved as the result of an editor or system crash.
.TP 
.B \-r
Recover the indicated 
.IR filename s
after a system crash.
.TP 
.B \-R
Read only.  Do not overwrite the original file.
.TP 
.B \-v
Start up in display editing state using
.BR vi .
You can achieve the same effect by simply typing the
.B vi
command itself.
.TP 
.B \-V
Verbose. Any non-tty input will be echoed on standard error.
This may be useful when processing editor commands within shell scripts.
.TP 
.B \-x
Prompt for a key to be used in encrypting the file being edited. 
When used in conjunction with a pre-existing file,
.I ex
will make an educated guess to determine whether or not the input text file is already encrypted.
.TP
.B \-C
Encryption option; the same as the 
.B \-x
option, except that all input text is assumed to have already been 
encrypted. This guarantees decryption in the cases where the 
.B \-x
option incorrectly determines that the input file is not already encrypted (this is extremely rare, and will only occur in conjunction with the use of files containing non-ASCII text).
.TP 
.BI \-t " tag"
Edit the file containing the tag
.IR tag .
A tags database must first be created using the
.BR ctags (1) 
command.
.TP 
.BI +c " command"
.TP 
.BI \-c " command"
.PD
Start the editing session by executing
.IR command .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The editor recognizes the environment variable
.SB EXINIT
as a command (or list of commands separated by 
.B |
characters) to run when it starts up.  If this variable is
undefined, the editor checks for startup commands in the file
.B \s-1$HOME\s0/.exrc
file, which you must own.  However, if there is a
.B .exrc
owned by you in the current directory, the editor takes its
startup commands from this file 
\(em overriding both the 
file in your home directory and the environment variable.
.LP
The environment variables
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.B \s-1LC\s0_default
control the character classification
throughout
.BR ex .
On entry to
.BR ex ,
these environment variables are checked in the
following order:
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.BR \s-1LC\s0_default.
When a valid value is found,
remaining environment variables for character classification
are ignored.
For example, a new setting for
.B \s-1LANG\s0
does not override the current valid character
classification rules of
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 .
When none of the values is valid,
the shell character
classification defaults to the 
.SM POSIX.1 \*(lqC\*(rq
locale.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/ex?.?strings
error messages
.TP
.B /usr/lib/ex?.?recover
recover command
.TP
.B /usr/lib/ex?.?preserve
preserve command
.TP
.B /etc/termcap
describes capabilities of terminals
.TP
.B \&.exrc
editor startup file for current directory 
.TP
.B \s-1$HOME\s0/.exrc
user's editor startup file if
.B \&./.exrc
is not found
.TP
.B /tmp/Ex\fInnnnn\fR
editor temporary file
.TP
.B /tmp/Rx\fInnnnn\fR
file named buffer temporary
.TP
.B /var/preserve
preservation directory
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR awk (1),
.BR ctags (1),
.BR ed (1),
.BR grep (1V),
.BR sed (1V),
.BR vi (1),
.BR locale (5),
.BR termcap (5), 
.BR environ (5V),
.BR iso_8859_1 (7)
.LP
.TX TEXT
.SH BUGS
.LP
The
.B z
command prints a number of logical rather than physical lines.
More than a screen full of output
may result if long lines are present.
.LP
File input/output errors do not print a name if the command line
.RB ` \- '
option is used.
.LP
There is no easy way to do a single scan ignoring case.
.LP
The editor does not warn if text is
placed in named buffers and not used
before exiting the editor.
.LP
Null characters are discarded in input
files, and cannot appear in resultant
files.
.LP
With the
.B modeline
option in effect, the editor checks the
first five lines of the text file for
commands of the form
.RS
.B ex:
.IB command :
.RE
or
.RS
.B vi:
.IB command :
.RE
if any are found, the
editor executes them.  This can result
in unexpected behavior, and is not
recommended in any case.  In earlier releases,
.B modeline
was in effect by default.  Now it is not, but setting it in the
.B .exrc
file or the
.SB EXINIT
environment variable can still produce untoward effects.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.LP
The encryption facilities of
.B ex
are not available on software
shipped outside the U.S.
