.\" @(#)fdformat.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH FDFORMAT 1 "7 October 1990"
.SH NAME
fdformat \- format diskettes for use with SunOS 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS Sun386i Systems
.B fdformat
[
.B \-L
]
[
.B \-2
]
.SS Sun-3/80 and Desktop SPARC Systems
.B fdformat
[
.B \-deflv
]
[
.B \-b
.I label
]
[
.I device
]
.SH AVAILABLITY
.LP
This command is available on
Sun386i, Sun-3/80, and Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0 systems only.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "fdformat command" "format floppy" "\fLfdformat\fP \(em floppy format" 
.LP
.B fdformat
is a utility for formatting floppy diskettes.
All new blank diskettes must be
formatted before they can be used.
.B fdformat
formats and verifies each track on the diskette, and terminates if
it finds any bad sectors. 
All existing data on the diskette, if any, is destroyed by formatting.
.LP
By default, 
.B fdformat 
formats a high density diskette with a capacity of 1.44 megabytes.
Use the
.B \-L
or
.B \-l
option to format low density diskettes (720K capacity).
Note: it is not possible to put a low density 
format onto a high density floppy diskette.
High density diskettes can be recognized by the high density
detect hole in the lower right corner of the diskette, opposite the write
protect hole in the lower left corner.
.LP
Use the
.B \-d
option to put a
.B MS-DOS
file system on the diskette after format is done. Otherwise, the
Sun-3/80 and Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0 systems version of
.B fdformat
writes a Sun\s-1OS\s0 label on the diskette
in logical block 0 after it has been formatted.
The label is required on Sun-3/80 and Desktop \s-1SPARC\s0 systems
if you intend to put a
.SM UNIX
file system on the floppy diskette.
.LP
On Sun386i systems, use the
.B \-2
option to format diskettes in the optional external 5 1/4" floppy drive.
To format diskettes for use under 
.SM MS-DOS,
use the 
.SM MS-DOS FORMAT
command in a 
.SM DOS
window.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Sun386i Systems
.TP
.B \-L
Format a low density diskette.
.TP
.B \-2
Format a diskette in the optional external 5.25-inch floppy drive.
.SS Sun-3/80 and Desktop SPARC Systems
.TP
.B \-b
Put a
.B MS-DOS
.I label
on the disk after formatting it. This option is only meaningful when 
.B \-d
is also set.
.TP
.B \-d
Install a
.B MS-DOS
file system and boot sector on the disk after formatting. This is
equivalent to the
.SM MS-DOS FORMAT
command.
.TP
.B \-e
Eject the diskette when done.
.TP
.B \-f
Force.
Do not ask for confirmation before starting format.
.TP
.B \-l
Format a low density (720K) diskette.
.TP
.B \-v
Verify the floppy diskette after formatting.
.SH NOTES
.LP
A diskette formatted using the
.B \-d option for
.B MS-DOS
won't have the necessary system files, and is therefore not bootable.
Trying to boot from it on a
.B PC
will result in the following message:
.IP
Non-System disk or disk error
.br
Replace and strike any key when ready

.SH FILES
.SS Sun386i Systems
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/rfd0c
1.44 megabyte 3.5-inch high density diskette drive
.TP
.B /dev/rfdl0c
720 kilobyte 3.5-inch low density diskette drive
.TP
.B /dev/rfd2c
High density 5.25-inch floppy drive
.TP
.B /dev/rfdl2c
Low density 5.25-inch floppy drive
.PD
.SS Sun-3/80 and Desktop SPARC Systems
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/rfd0c
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dos (1),
.BR fd (4S),
.BR pcfs (4S)
.br
.ne 5
.SH BUGS
.LP
Currently bad sector mapping is not supported on 
floppy diskettes.
Therefore, a diskette is unusable if 
.B fdformat
finds an error (bad sector).
