.\" @(#)file.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5r3
.TH FILE 1 "2 October 1989"
.SH NAME
file \- determine the type of a file by examining its contents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B file
[ 
.B \-f 
.I ffile 
]
[ 
.B \-cL 
]
[ 
.B \-m
.I mfile 
]
.IR filename .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "file command"  ""  "\fLfile\fP \(em get file type"
.IX files  "determine type of"
.B file
performs a series of tests on each 
.I filename
in an attempt to determine
what it contains.  If the contents of a file appear to be 
.SM ASCII 
text,
.B file
examines the first 512 bytes and tries to guess its language.
.LP
.B file
uses the file
.B /etc/magic
to identify files that have some sort of
.IR "magic number" ,
that is, any file containing a numeric or
string constant that indicates its type.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
Check for format errors in the magic number file.
For reasons of efficiency, this validation
is not normally carried out.
No file type-checking is done under
.BR \-c .
.TP
.BI \-f " ffile"
Get a list of filenames to identify from 
.I ffile.
.TP
.B \-L
If a file is a symbolic link, test the file the link references
rather than the link itself.
.TP
.BI \-m " mfile"
Use
.I mfile 
as the name of an alternate magic number file.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
This example illustrates the use of 
.B file
on all the files in a
specific user's directory:
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
.ft B
example% pwd
/usr/blort/misc
example% file  *
.ft R
.fi
.TP 20
.B code:
.B mc68020 demand paged executable
.TP
.B code.c:	
.B c program text
.TP
.B counts:
.B ascii text
.TP
.B doc:
.B roff, nroff , or eqn
.B input text
.TP
.B empty.file:
.B empty
.TP
.B libz:
.B archive random library
.TP
.B memos:
.B directory
.TP
.B project:
.B symbolic link to
.B /usr/project
.TP
.B script:
.B executable shell script
.TP
.B titles:
.B ascii text
.TP
.B s5.stuff:
.B cpio archive
.TP
.B example%
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
The environment variables
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.B \s-1LC\s0_default
control the character classification
throughout
.BR file .
On entry to
.BR file ,
these environment variables are checked in the
following order:
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.BR \s-1LC\s0_default.
When a valid value is found,
remaining environment variables for character classification
are ignored.
For example, a new setting for
.B \s-1LANG\s0
does not override the current valid character
classification rules of
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 .
When none of the values is valid,
the shell character
classification defaults to the 
.SM POSIX.1 \*(lqC\*(rq
locale.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/magic
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR locale (5),
.BR magic (5)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B file
often makes mistakes.  In particular, it often suggests that command
files are C programs.
.LP
Does not recognize Pascal or 
.SM LISP.
