.\" @(#)find.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH FIND 1 "6 January 1989"
.SH NAME
find \- find files by name, or by other characteristics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B find
.I pathname-list  expression
.br
.B find
.I component
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "find command"  ""  "\fLfind\fP \(em find files"
.IX files  find
.IX "search for files"
.LP
.B find
recursively descends the directory hierarchy for each 
pathname in the 
.IR pathname-list ,
seeking files that match a logical
.I expression
written using the operators listed below.  
.LP
.B find
does 
.I not
follow symbolic links to other files or directories; it
applies the selection criteria to the symbolic links themselves,
as if they were ordinary files (see
.BR ln (1V)
for a description of symbolic links).
.LP
If the 
.I fast-find
feature is enabled,
.B find
displays pathnames in which a filename
.I component
occurs.
.SH USAGE
.SS Operators
In the descriptions, the argument 
.I n
is used as a decimal integer where 
.BI + n
means more than 
.IR n ,
.BI \-  n
means less than 
.IR n ,
and 
.I n
means exactly
.IR n .
.I
.TP 15
.BI \-fstype " type"
True if the filesystem to which the
file belongs is of type 
.IR type ,
where 
.I type
is typically
.B "4.2"
or
.BR "nfs" .
.TP
.BI \-name " filename" 
True if the 
.I filename
argument matches the current file name.
Shell argument syntax can be used if escaped (watch out for
.BR [ ", "
.BR ? " and "
.BR * ")."
.TP
.BI \-perm " onum"
True if the file permission flags exactly match the octal number 
.I onum
(see
.BR chmod (1V)).
If 
.I onum
is prefixed by a minus sign, more flag bits (017777, see
.BR chmod (1V))
become significant and the flags are compared:
.BI ( flags & onum )==\c
.IR onum .
.TP
.B \-prune
Always yields true.  Has the side effect of pruning the search
tree at the file.  That is, if the current path name is a directory,
.B find
will not descend into that directory.
.TP
.BI \-type " c"
True if the type of the file is 
.IR c ,
where 
.I c
is one of:
.RS 
.RS
.TP
.PD 0
.B b
for block special file
.B c
.PD 0
.TP
.B c
for character special file
.TP
.B d
for directory
.TP
.B f
for plain file
.TP
.B p
for named pipe (\s-1FIFO\s0)
.TP
.B l
for symbolic link
.TP
.B s
for socket
.RE
.RE
.PD
.TP 15
.BI \-links " n"
True if the file has 
.I n
links.
.TP
.BI \-user " uname"
True if the file belongs to the user 
.IR uname .
If 
.I uname
is numeric and does not appear as a login name in the
.B /etc/passwd
database, it is taken as a user 
.SM ID.
.TP
.B \-nouser
True if the file belongs to a user
.I not
in the
.B /etc/passwd
database.
.TP
.BI \-group " gname"
True if the file belongs to group 
.IR gname .
If 
.I gname
is numeric and does not appear as a login name in the
.B /etc/group
database, it is taken as a group 
.SM ID.
.TP
.B \-nogroup
True if the file belongs to a group
.I not
in the
.B /etc/group
database.
.TP
.BI \-size " n"
True if the file is 
.I n
blocks long (512 bytes per block).
If
.I n
is followed by a
.BR c ,
the size is in characters.
.TP
.BI \-inum " n"
True if the file has inode number 
.IR n .
.TP
.BI \-atime " n"
True if the file has been accessed in 
.I n
days.
.br
Note: the access time of directories in 
.I path-name-list
is changed by 
.B find
itself.
.TP
.BI \-mtime " n"
True if the file has been modified in 
.I n
days.
.TP
.BI \-ctime " n"
True if the file has been changed in 
.I n
days.
\*(lqChanged\*(rq means either that the file has been modified or some attribute
of the file (its owner, its group, the number of links to it, etc.) has been
changed.
.TP
.BI \-exec " command"
True if the executed 
.I command
returns a zero value as exit status.
The end of 
.I command
must be punctuated by an escaped semicolon.
A command argument 
.B {\|}
is replaced by the current pathname.
.TP
.BI \-ok " command"
Like
.B \-exec
except that the generated command is written on
the standard output, then the standard input is read
and the command executed only upon response
.BR y .
.TP
.B \-print
Always true; the current pathname is printed.
.TP
.B \-ls
Always true;
prints current pathname together
with its associated statistics.
These include (respectively) inode number,
size in kilobytes (1024 bytes),
protection mode,
number of hard links,
user,
group,
size in bytes,
and modification time.
If the file is a special file
the size field will instead contain the major and minor
device numbers.
If the file is a symbolic link the
pathname of the linked-to file is printed preceded by
.RB ` \-> '.
The format is identical to that of 
.B "ls \-gilds"
(see
.BR ls (1V)).
.br
Note: formatting is done internally,
without executing the
.B ls
program.
.TP
.BI \-cpio " device"
Always true;
write the current file on
.I device
in
.BR cpio (5)
format (5120-byte records).
.TP
.BI \-ncpio " device"
Always true;
write the current file on
.I device
in
.B cpio \-c
format (5120-byte records).
.TP
.BI \-newer " file"
True if the current file has been modified more recently than the
argument 
.IR filename .
.TP
.B \-xdev
Always true;
find does
.I not
traverse down into a file system different
from the one on which current
.I argument
pathname resides.
.TP
.B \-depth
Always true;
.B find
descends the directory hierarchy, 
acting on the entries in a directory before
acting on 
the directory itself.
This can be useful when 
.B find
is used with
.BR cpio (1)
to transfer files
that are contained in directories without 
write permission.
.TP
.BI ( expression )
True if the parenthesized 
.I expression
is true.
.br
Note: Parentheses are special to the shell and must be escaped.
.TP
.BI ! primary
True if the 
.I primary
is false 
.RB ( !
is the unary 
.I not
operator).
.HP
.I primary1
[
.B \-a
]
.I primary2
.br
True if both 
.I primary1
and 
.I primary2
are true.
The 
.B \-a
is not required.  It is implied by the juxtaposition of two 
primaries.
.HP
.IB primary1 " \-o " primary2
.br
True if either 
.I primary1
or 
.I primary2
is true
.RB "(" \-o " is the"
.I or
operator).
.SS Fast-Find
.LP
The fast-find feature is enabled by the presence of the
.B find.codes
database in
.BR /usr/lib/find .
You must be
.B root
to build or update this database by running the
.B updatedb
script in that same directory.
You may wish to modify the
.B updatedb
script to suit your needs.
.LP
An alternate database can be specified by setting the
.SB FCODES
environment variable.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
In our local development system, we keep a file called 
.SM TIMESTAMP
in all the manual page directories.
Here is how to find all entries that have
been updated since 
.SM TIMESTAMP
was created:
.RS
.ft B
.sp .5
.nf
example% find /usr/share/man/man2 \-newer /usr/share/man/man2/\s-1TIMESTAMP\s0 \-print
/usr/share/man/man2
/usr/share/man/man2/socket.2
/usr/share/man/man2/mmap.2
example%
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
To find all the files called 
.B intro.ms
starting from the current
directory:
.RS
.sp .5
.ft B
.nf
example% find . \-name intro.ms \-print
\&.\|/manuals/assembler/intro.ms
\&.\|/manuals/sun.core/intro.ms
\&.\|/manuals/driver.tut/intro.ms
\&.\|/manuals/sys.manager/uucp.impl/intro.ms
\&.\|/supplements/general.works/unix.introduction/intro.ms
\&.\|/supplements/programming.tools/sccs/intro.ms
example%
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
To recursively print all files names in the current directory and below,
but skipping 
.SM SCCS
directories:
.RS
.sp .5
.ft B
.nf
example% find . \-name \s-1SCCS\s0 \-prune \-o \-print
example%
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
To recursively print all files names in the current directory and below,
skipping the contents of
.SM SCCS
directories, but printing out the
.SM SCCS
directory name:
.RS
.sp .5
.ft B
.nf
example% find . \-print \-name \s-1SCCS\s0 \-prune
example%
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.br
.ne 8
.LP
To remove files beneath your home directory named
.B a.out
or
.B *.o 
that have not been accessed for a week
and that are not mounted using
.SM NFS\s0:
.RS
.sp .5
.ft B
.nf
example% cd
example% find . \e( \-name a.out \-o \-name '*.o' \e) \-atime +7 \-exec rm {\|} \e; \-o -fstype nfs \-prune
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/find/find.codes
database for fast find
.TP
.B /usr/lib/find/updatedb
script to update fast-find database
.TP
.B /usr/lib/find/code
fast-find database utilities
.TP
.B /usr/lib/find/bigram
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 20
.SB FCODES
alternate database for fast find
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chmod (1V),
.BR cpio (1),
.BR ln (1V),
.BR ls (1V),
.BR sh (1),
.BR test (1V),
.BR cpio (5),
.BR fs (5)
