.\" @(#)finger.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH FINGER 1 "10 January 1988"
.SH NAME
finger \- display information about users
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B finger
[
.I options
] 
.IR name .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "finger command"  ""  "\fLfinger\fP \(em info on users"
.IX  users  "info on users"  users  "info on users \(em \fLfinger\fP"
.IX  login  "info on users"  login  "info on users \(em \fLfinger\fP"
.LP
By default,
.B finger
displays information about each logged-in user, including his or her:
login name, full name, terminal name (prepended with a
.RB ` \(** '
if write-permission is denied), idle time, login time, and
location (comment field in
.B /etc/ttytab
for users logged in locally, hostname for users logged in remotely)
if known.
.LP
Idle time is minutes if it is a single integer,
hours and minutes if a
.RB ' : \|'
is present, or days and hours if a
.B d
is present.
.LP
When one or more
.I name
arguments are given, more detailed information is given for each
.I name
specified, whether they are logged in or not.  A
.I name
may be a first or last name, or an account name.
Information is presented in a multi-line format, and
includes, in addition to the information mentioned above:
.RS
the user's home directory and login shell
.br
the time they logged in if they are currently logged in,
or the time they last logged in if they are not, as well as the terminal
or host from which they logged in and, if a terminal, the comment field in
.B /etc/ttytab
for that terminal
.br
the last time they received mail,
and the last time they read their mail
.br
any plan contained in the file
.B .plan
in the user's home directory
.br
and any project on which they are 
working described in the file
.B .project
(also in that directory)
.RE
.LP
If a 
.I name
argument contains an at-sign,
.RB ` @ ',
then a connection
is attempted to the machine named after the at-sign, and the remote 
finger daemon is queried.
The data returned by that daemon is printed. 
If a long format printout is to be produced,
.B finger
passes the
.B \-l
option to the remote finger daemon over the network using the
.B /W
feature of the protocol
(see
.I \s-1NAME\s0/\s-1FINGER\s0 Protocol).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-m
Match arguments only on user name (not first or last name).
.TP
.B \-l
Force long output format.
.TP
.B \-s
Force short output format.
.TP
.B \-q
Force quick output format, which is similar to short format except that only
the login name, terminal, and login time are printed.
.TP
.B \-i
Force ``idle'' output format, which is similar to short format except that
only the login name, terminal, login time, and idle time are printed.
.TP
.B \-b
Suppress printing the user's home directory and shell in a long format
printout.
.TP
.B \-f
Suppress printing the header that is normally printed in a non-long format
printout.
.TP
.B \-w
Suppress printing the full name in a short format printout.
.TP
.B \-h
Suppress printing of the
.B .project
file in a long format printout.
.TP
.B \-p
Suppress printing of the
.B .plan
file in a long format printout.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/utmp
who is logged in
.TP
.B /etc/passwd
for users' names
.TP
.B /var/adm/lastlog
last login times
.TP
.B /etc/ttytab
terminal locations
.TP
.B ~/.plan
plans
.TP
.B ~/.project
projects
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR passwd (1),
.BR w (1),
.BR who (1),
.BR whois (1)
.LP
Harrenstien, K.,
.I \s-1NAME\s0/\s-1FINGER\s0 Protocol,
1977 December 30, RFC 742.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Only the first line of the
.B .project
file is printed.
