.\" @(#)fmt.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH FMT 1 "28 December 1987"
.SH NAME
fmt, fmt_mail \- simple text and mail-message formatters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fmt
[
.B \-cs
] 
[
.BI \- width
] 
[
.IR inputfile  ".\|.\|."
]
.LP
.B fmt_mail
[
.B \-cs
] 
[
.BI \- width
] 
[
.IR inputfile " .\|.\|."
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "fmt command"  ""  "\fLfmt\fP \(em simple formatter"
.IX "document production" fmt "" "\fLfmt\fR \(em simple formatter"
.LP
.B fmt 
is a simple text formatter that fills and joins lines 
to produce output lines of (up to) the number of characters
specified in the
.BI \- width
option.  The default 
.I width
is 72.
.B fmt
concatenates the
.IR inputfile s
listed as arguments.  If none are given,
.B fmt
formats text from the standard input.
.LP
Blank lines are preserved in the output, as is the spacing between
words.
.B fmt
does not fill lines beginning with `\fB.\fR', for compatibility with 
.BR nroff (1).
Nor does it fill lines starting with
.BR ` From: ' 
(but for full compatibility with
.BR mail (1),
use
.BR fmt_mail ).
.LP
Indentation is preserved in the output, and input lines with differing
indentation are not joined (unless
.B \-c
is used). 
.LP
.B fmt
can also be used as an in-line text filter for
.BR vi (1);
the 
.B vi
command:
.IP
.B !}fmt
.LP
reformats the text between the cursor location and the end of
the paragraph.
.LP
.B fmt_mail
is a script that formats and sends mail messages.  It leaves mail
header lines untouched, and runs the remainder of the message through
.BR "fmt -s" .
The resulting message is passed along to
.BR sendmail (8),
which routes it to the recipient.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-c\fP
Crown margin mode. Preserve the
indentation of the first two lines within a paragraph, and align the left
margin of each subsequent line with that of the second line.
This is useful for tagged paragraphs.
.TP
.B \-s
Split lines only.  Do not join short lines to form longer ones.  This
prevents sample lines of code, and other such \*(lqformatted\*(rq text,
from being unduly combined.
.IP \fB\-\fIwidth\fR
Fill output lines to up to 
.IR width " columns."
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP 
The environment variables
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and 
.B \s-1LC\s0_default
control the character classification
throughout
.BR fmt .
On entry to
.BR fmt ,
these environment variables are checked in the
following order:
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and 
.BR \s-1LC\s0_default.
When a valid value is found,
remaining environment variables for character classification
are ignored.
For example, a new setting for
.B \s-1LANG\s0
does not override the current valid character
classification rules of
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 .
When none of the values is valid,
the shell character
classification defaults to the
.SM POSIX.1 \*(lqC\*(rq
locale.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mail (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR vi (1)
