.\" @(#)fontedit.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH FONTEDIT 1 "2 October 1989"
.SH NAME
fontedit \- a vfont screen-font editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B fontedit
[
\fIgeneric-tool-argument\fR
] .\|.\|.
[
.I font_name
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I SunView User's
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "fontedit command"  ""  "\fLfontedit\fP \(em font editor"
.IX edit  "fonts \(em \fLfontedit\fR"
.IX "screen fonts, edit \(em \fLfontedit\fR"
.LP
.B fontedit
is an editor for fixed-width fonts in
\fIvfont\fR
format whose characters are no taller than 24 pixels
(larger characters will not fit completely onto the screen).
For a description of
\fIvfont\fR
format, see
.BR vfont (5).
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fIgeneric-tool-argument\fR
\fBfontedit\fP
accepts any generic tool argument as described
in
.BR sunview (1).
Otherwise, you can manipulate the tool using the Frame
Menu.
.SH COMMANDS
.LP
To edit a font, type
`\fBfontedit\fP'.
A
\fIfont_name\fP
may be supplied on the command line or
may be typed into the Control panel once the program has started.
If it exists, the
\fIfont_name\fP
file must be in
\fIvfont\fR
format.
.\"The font_name does not have to exist; however,
.\"if a file called font_name exists, it must be in
.\".I VFONT
.\"format.
When the program starts, it displays a single large window containing
four subwindows.
.\"(the layout is much like that of \fBicontool\fP\^).
From top to bottom, the four subwindows are:
.IP "1)" 4
The top subwindow, a message subwindow, displays messages, prompts, and warnings.
.IP "2)" 4
The second subwindow from the top, an Control panel,
allows you to set global parameters for the entire font and
specify operations for editing any single character.
.\"where the user performs actions that effect the whole font.
.\"Here's a brief explaination of items in the window:
The options are:
.RS
.IP "\fB(Load)\fP" 10
Load in the font specified in the file name field.
The program will warn you if you try to read over a
modified font.
.IP "\fB(Store)\fP"
Store the current font onto disk with the name in file name field.
.IP "\fB(Quit)\fP"
Quit the program; warns you if you have modified the font.
.IP "\fBFont name:\fP"
The name of the font.
.IP "\fBMax Width\fP and \fBMax Height:\fP"
The size, in pixels, of the largest
character in the font.  If you edit an
existing font, these parameters are set automatically; you must set
them if you are creating a new font.  Changing either of these values
for an existing font may alter the glyph of some characters of
the font. If the glyph size of a character is larger
than the new max size, then that character is clipped
to the new size (its bottom and right
edges are moved in). However, if
a glyph's size is smaller than the new size, the glyph is left alone.
.IP "\fBCaps Height\fP and \fBX-Height:\fP"
The distance, in pixels, between the top of a capital and lowercase letter
and the
baseline.
When an existing font is edited, the values
of
\fBCaps Height\fP
and
\fBX-Height\fP
are estimated by
\fIfontedit\fP,
and may require some adjustment.
.IP "\fBBaseline:\fP"
The number of pixels from the top (that is,
the upper left corner)
of the character to the baseline.
For an existing font, the value of the
largest baseline distance is used. For a new font, each
character will have the same baseline distance. If this
value is changed, then the baseline distance for all characters
in the font will be the new value.
.IP "\fB(Apply)\fP"
Apply the current values of
\fBMax Width\fP,
\fBMax Height\fP,
\fBCaps Height\fP,
\fBX-Height\fP,
and
\fBBaseline\fP
to the font.
That is, changes made to these values
do not take effect until
\fBApply\fP
is selected.
.br
.ne 8
.IP "\fBOperation:\fP"
This is a list of drawing and editing operations
that you can perform on a character. For drawing, the
left mouse button draws in black, and the middle draws
in white.  Operations are:
.RS
.IP "\fBSingle Pt\fP" 10
Press a mouse button down and a grey cell
will appear; move the mouse and the
cell will follow it. Releasing the
button will draw.
.IP "\fBPt Wipe\fP"
Pressing a button down will draw and
moving with the button down will
continue drawing until the button
is released.
.IP "\fBLine\fP"
Button down marks the end point of a
line; moving with the button down
rubber bands a line; releasing button
draws the line.
.IP "\fBRect\fP"
Like \fBLine\fP except draws a rectangle.
.IP "\fBCut\fP"
Button down marks one end of rectangle,
and moving rubber bands the outline
of the rectangle. Button up places the
contents of the rectangle into a
buffer and then ``cuts'' (draws in white)
the rectangular region from the character.  The
\fBPaste\fP
operation
(below) gets the data from the buffer.
.IP "\fBCopy\fP"
Like
\fBCut\fP
except that the region is
just copied; no change is made to the character.
.IP "\fBPaste\fP"
Button down displays a rectangle the
size of the region in the buffer.
Moving with the button down moves the
rectangle. Button up pastes the
contents of the buffer into the character.
.br
The contents of the
\fBpaste\fP
buffer cannot be transferred
between tools.
.br
In
\fBCopy\fP
or
\fBCut\fP
mode, holding down the shift key
while pressing the left or middle mouse button will perform a
\fBPaste\fP
action. For best results, after placing a region
in the buffer, press down the shift key and hold it down, then
press down the mouse button. Release the mouse key to paste the
region and then release the shift key.
.RE
.RE
.IP "3)" 4
The third subwindow echoes the characters in the current font as they
are typed. Note that the cursor must be in this window in order to see
the characters. Your character delete key will delete the echoed characters.
.IP "4)" 4
The bottom subwindow, the editing subwindow, displays eight
smaller squares at its top;
these are called
\fBedit buttons\fP.
The top section of each of these
buttons contains a line of text in the
form
\fInnn: c\fP,
where
\fInnn\fP
is the hexadecimal number of the character and
\fIc\fP
is the standard
.SM ASCII
character corresponding to that number.  In the lower section of
the button the character of the current font, if it exists, is displayed.
.\"Pressing the mouse button down just hi-lights the button;
.\"to edit a character, the mouse button must be released over the button.
Clicking once over an editing button
selects its character for editing.
.RS
.LP	
Just below this row of buttons is a box with the characters
``0  9 A  Z a  z'' in it. This box is called a
\fBslider\fP.
The slider allows you to scroll around in the font and select
which section of the font you want displayed in the edit buttons.
The black rectangle  near ``a'' is an
indicator which shows the section of the font that is displayed in
the buttons above. To move the indicator, select it by pressing the
left or middle mouse button down over the indicator
and then move the mouse to the left or right with
the button down; the indicator will slide along with the cursor.
Releasing the button selects the new section of
the font.  A faster method of moving about in the font is to
just press down and release the mouse button above the area you
want without bothering to drag the indicator.
Another method of scrolling through the characters of the font is
to press a key on the keyboard when the cursor is in the bottom
window; that character is the first one displayed in the
edit buttons.
.RE
.SH "EDITING CHARACTERS:"
.LP
To edit a character, click once over the edit button where the character
is displayed.  When you do this, an edit pad will appear in the bottom
subwindow.
.LP
The edit pad consists of an editing area bordered by scales, a
proof area, and 3 command buttons.
The editing area is
\fBMax Width\fP
by
\fBMax Height\fP
when the
pad opens, and displays a magnified view of the selected character.
Black squares indicate foreground pixels.
The editing area is surrounded by scales which show the current
\fBCaps Height\fP,
\fBX-Height\fP
and
\fBBaseline\fP
in reverse video.
.LP
Just outside the scales, on the top,
right side, and bottom of the pad,
are three small boxes with the capital
letters "R", "B", and "A" in them.
These boxes are movable sliders that
change the right edge, bottom edge,
and x-axis advance of the character
respectively. In a fixed-width font, these
values are usually the same for all characters; however, in a
variable-width font these controls can be
used to set these properties for
each character.
.LP
To the right of the pad is the proof area
where the character is displayed at normal (that is, screen)
resolution and three buttons.  The three buttons are:
.RS
.IP "\fBUndo\fP" 7
Clicking the left or middle mouse button undoes the last operation.
.IP "\fBStore\fP"
Stores the current representation of the character in the font.
.IP "\fBQuit\fP"
Closes the edit pad.
.RE
.LP
In the bottom subwindow, the right
mouse button displays a menu of operations.
These operations are the same as
those in the control panel discussed above;
you can select the current
operation by either picking the operation
in the control panel or by
selecting the appropriate menu with
the right button of the mouse. When the
cursor is in the other subwindows, the
right button displays the standard tool
menu.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
The environment variables
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.B \s-1LC\s0_default
control the character classification
throughout
.BR fontedit .
On entry to
.BR fontedit ,
these environment variables are checked in the
following order:
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.BR \s-1LC\s0_default.
When a valid value is found,
remaining environment variables for character classification
are ignored.
For example, a new setting for
.B \s-1LANG\s0
does not override the current valid character
classification rules of
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 .
When none of the values is valid,
the shell character
classification defaults to the 
.SM POSIX.1 \*(lqC\*(rq
locale.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/fonts/fixedwidthfonts
Sun-supplied screen fonts
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sunview (1),
.BR vswap (1),
.BR locale (5),
.BR vfont (5),
.BR iso_8859_1 (7)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Results are unpredictable with variable-width fonts.
The baseline should be greater than 0 or else the font cannot be read in
by
.B fontedit
or by
.BR sunview (1).
