.\" @(#)foption.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH FOPTION 1 "8 December 1987"
.SH NAME
foption \- determine available floating-point code generation options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B foption
[
.BI \-f type
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is not available for the Sun386i.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  foption  ""  "\fLfoption\fP \(em determine available floating-point code generation options"
.IX  floating-point
.LP
.B foption
has two uses.
Called without an argument, it sends
a string to standard output which is the compiler floating-point option
corresponding to the type of floating-point hardware
that would be used by a program compiled with 
.BR \-fswitch .
Exit status is undefined.
This usage is intended for interactively determining available 
floating-point hardware.  On systems without floating-point hardware,
the result would be
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
.ft B
example% foption
soft
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
corresponding to the compiler option 
.BR \-fsoft .
.LP
Called with an argument which is one of the compiler floating-point options 
.BR \-ffpa ,
.BR \-f68881 ,
.\".BR \-fsky ,
.BR \-fsoft ,
or
.BR \-fswitch ,
it produces no output but returns
exit status 0 (true) if a program compiled with that option could execute
on this machine, and status 1 (false) otherwise.  
Thus
.B "foption \-fsoft"
and
.B "foption \-fswitch"
always produce exit status 0.
This usage is intended for shell scripts and Makefiles that, for instance,
select different executable files or link with different libraries according
to the floating-point hardware present.
.LP
.B foption
is undefined on Sun-4 systems since there are no floating-point
code generation options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 6
.BI \-f type
Return exit status 0 if a program compiled 
.BI \-f type 
could execute on this machine.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cc (1V),
.\".BR skyversion (8),
.BR fpaversion (8),
.BR mc68881version (8)
