.\" @(#)ftp.1c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.TH FTP 1C "15 January 1988"
.SH NAME
ftp \- file transfer program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ftp
[ 
.B \-dgintv
] 
[
.I hostname
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "ftp command"  ""  "\fLftp\fP \(em file transfer"
.IX files  transfer
.IX "file transfer protocol"  "ftp command"  ""  "\fLftp\fP command"
.LP
.B ftp
is the user interface to the
.SM ARPANET
standard File Transfer Protocol (\s-1FTP\s0).
.B ftp
transfers files to and from a remote network site.
.LP
The client host with which 
.B ftp
is to communicate may be specified on the command line.
If this is done,
.B ftp
immediately attempts to establish a connection to an
.SM FTP
server on that host;
otherwise, 
.B ftp
enters its command interpreter and awaits instructions
from the user.  When 
.B ftp
is awaiting commands from the user, it
displays the prompt
.RB ` ftp> '.  
.SH OPTIONS
Options may be specified at the command line, or to the 
command interpreter.
.TP
.B \-d
Enable debugging.
.TP
.B \-g
Disable filename \*(lqglobbing.\*(rq
.TP
.B \-i
Turn off interactive prompting during multiple file transfers.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not attempt \*(lqauto-login\*(rq upon initial connection.
If auto-login is enabled, 
.B ftp
checks the
.B \&.netrc
file in the user's home directory for an entry describing
an account on the remote machine.  If no entry exists,
.B ftp
will prompt for the login name of the account on the remote machine (the
default is the login name on the local machine), and, if necessary, prompts
for a password and an account with which to login.
.TP
.B \-t
Enable packet tracing (unimplemented).
.TP
.B \-v
Show all responses from the remote server, as well
as report on data transfer statistics.  This is turned on by
default if
.B ftp
is running interactively with its input coming from the user's terminal.
.SH COMMANDS
.HP
.B \&!
.RI [ " command " ]
.br
Run
.I command
as a shell command on the local machine.
If no 
.I command
is given, invoke an interactive shell.
.HP
.BI \&$ " macro-name"
.RI [ " args " ]
.br
Execute the macro
.I macro-name
that was defined with the
.B macdef
command.
Arguments are passed to the macro unglobbed.
.HP
.B account
.RI [ " passwd " ]
.br
Supply a supplemental password required by a remote system for access
to resources once a login has been successfully completed.
If no argument is included, the user will be prompted for an account
password in a non-echoing input mode.
.HP
.BI append " local-file"
.RI [ " remote-file " ]
.br
Append a local file to a file on the remote machine.  If
.I remote-file
is left unspecified, the local file name is used in naming the
remote file after being altered by any
.B ntrans
or
.B nmap
setting.
File transfer uses the current settings for
\*(lqrepresentation type\*(rq, \*(lqfile structure\*(rq,
and \*(lqtransfer mode\*(rq.
.TP
.B ascii
Set the \*(lqrepresentation type\*(rq
to \*(lqnetwork
.SM ASCII\s0\*(rq.
This is the default type.
.TP
.B bell
Sound a bell after each file transfer
command is completed.
.TP
.B binary
Set the \*(lqrepresentation type\*(rq to \*(lqimage\*(rq.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B bye
Terminate the
.SM FTP
session with the remote server and exit
.BR ftp .
An
.SM EOF
will also terminate the session and exit.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B case
Toggle remote computer file name case mapping during
.B mget
commands.
When
.B case
is on (default is off), remote computer
file names with all letters in
upper case are written in the
local directory with the letters mapped
to lower case.
.TP
.BI cd " remote-directory"
Change the working directory on the remote machine to 
.IR remote-directory .
.TP
.B cdup
Change the remote machine working directory to the parent of the
current remote machine working directory.
.TP
.B close
Terminate the 
.SM FTP
session with the remote server, and
return to the command interpreter.
Any defined macros are erased.
.TP
.B cr
Toggle
.SM RETURN
stripping during \*(lqnetwork
.SM ASCII\s0\*(rq
type file retrieval.
Records are denoted by a
.SM RETURN/LINEFEED
sequence during \*(lqnetwork
.SM ASCII\s0\*(rq
type file transfer.
When
.B cr
is on (the default),
.SM RETURN
characters are stripped from this
sequence to conform with the
.SM UNIX
system single
.SM LINEFEED
record delimiter.
Records on non-\s-1UNIX\s0-system remote hosts may contain single
.SM LINEFEED
characters; when an \*(lqnetwork
.SM ASCII\s0\*(rq
type transfer is made, these
.SM LINEFEED
characters may be
distinguished from a record delimiter only when
.B cr
is off.
.TP
.BI delete " remote-file"
Delete the file
.I remote-file
on the remote machine.
.HP
.B debug
.RI [ " debug-value " ]
.br
Toggle debugging mode. 
If an optional
.I debug-value
is specified it is used to set the debugging level.
When debugging is on,
.B ftp
prints each command sent to the remote machine, preceded
by the string
.RB ` --> '.
.HP
.B dir
.RI [ " remote-directory " "] [ " local-file " ]"
.br
Print a listing of the directory contents in the
directory,
.IR remote-directory ,
and, optionally, placing the output in
.IR local-file .
If no directory is specified, the current working
directory on the remote machine is used.  If no local
file is specified, or
.I local-file
is
.RB ` \- ',
output is sent to the terminal.
.TP
.B disconnect
A synonym for
.BR close .
.HP
.B form
.RI [ " format-name " ]
.br
Set the carriage control format subtype of the
\*(lqrepresentation type\*(rq to
.IR format-name .
The only valid
.I format-name
is
.BR non-print ,
which corresponds to the default \*(lqnon-print\*(rq subtype.
.HP
.BI get " remote-file"
.RI [ " local-file " ]
.br
Retrieve the 
.I remote-file
and store it on the local machine.  If the local
file name is not specified, it is given the same
name it has on the remote machine, subject to
alteration by the current
.BR case ,
.BR ntrans ,
and
.B nmap
settings.
The current settings for \*(lqrepresentation type\*(rq,
\*(lqfile structure\*(rq, and \*(lqtransfer mode\*(rq
are used while transferring the file.
.TP
.B glob
Toggle filename expansion, or \*(lqglobbing\*(rq,  
for
.BR mdelete ,
.B mget
and
.BR mput .
If globbing is turned off, filenames are taken literally.
.IP
Globbing for
.B mput
is done as in
.BR csh (1).
For
.B mdelete
and
.BR mget ,
each remote file name is
expanded separately on the remote machine, and the lists are not merged.
.IP
Expansion of a directory name is likely to be radically
different from expansion of the name of an ordinary file:
the exact result depends on the remote operating system and
.SM FTP
server, and can be previewed by doing
.RB ` "mls\ \fIremote-files\fP\ \-" '.
.IP
.B mget
and 
.B mput
are not meant to transfer
entire directory subtrees of files.  You can do this by
transferring a
.BR tar (1)
archive of the subtree (using a
\*(lqrepresentation type\*(rq of \*(lqimage\*(rq as set by the
.B binary
command).
.TP
.B hash
Toggle hash-sign 
.RB ( # )
printing for each data block transferred.
.HP
.B help
.RI [ " command " ]
.br
Print an informative message about the meaning of
.IR command .
If no argument is given, 
.B ftp
prints a list of the known commands.
.HP
.B lcd
.RI [ " directory " ]
.br
Change the working directory on the local machine.
If no 
.I directory
is specified, the user's home directory is used.
.HP
.B ls
.RI [ " remote-directory " "] [" " local-file " ]
.br
Print an abbreviated listing of the contents of a
directory on the remote machine.  If
.I remote-directory
is left unspecified, the current working directory
is used.  If no local file is specified, 
or if
.I local-file
is
.RB ` \- ',
the output is sent to the terminal.
.TP
.BI macdef " macro-name"
Define a macro.
Subsequent lines are stored as the macro
.IR macro-name ;
a null line (consecutive
.SM NEWLINE
characters in a file or
.SM RETURN
characters from the terminal) terminates macro input mode.
There is a limit of 16 macros and 4096 total characters in all
defined macros.
Macros remain defined until a
.B close
command is executed.
.IP
The macro processor interprets
.RB ` $ '
and
.RB ` \e '
as special characters.
A
.RB ` $ '
followed by a number (or numbers) is replaced by the
corresponding argument on the macro invocation command line.
A
.RB ` $ '
followed by an
.RB ` i '
signals that macro processor that the
executing macro is to be looped. On the first pass
.RB ` $i '
is replaced by the first argument on the macro invocation command line,
on the second pass it is replaced by the second argument, and so on.
A
.RB ` \e '
followed by any character is replaced by that character.
Use the
.RB ` \e '
to prevent special treatment of the
.RB ` $ '.
.HP
.B mdelete
.RI [ " remote-files " ]
.br
Delete the
.I remote-files
on the remote machine.
.TP
.BI mdir " remote-files local-file"
Like
.BR dir ,
except multiple remote files may be specified.
If interactive prompting is on,
.B ftp
will prompt the user to verify that the last argument is indeed the
target local file for receiving
.B mdir
output.
.TP
.BI mget " remote-files"
Expand the
.I remote-files
on the remote machine and do a
.B get
for each file name thus produced.
See
.B glob
for details on the filename expansion.
Resulting file names will then be processed according to
.BR case ,
.BR ntrans ,
and
.B nmap
settings.
Files are transferred into the local working directory,
which can be changed with
.RB ` "lcd\ \fIdirectory\fP" ';
new local directories can be created with
.RB ` "!\ mkdir\ \fIdirectory\fP" '.
.TP
.BI mkdir " directory-name"
Make a directory on the remote machine.
.TP
.BI mls " remote-files local-file"
Like
.BR ls (1V),
except multiple remote files may be specified.
If interactive prompting is on,
.B ftp
will prompt the user to verify that the last argument is indeed the
target local file for receiving
.B mls
output.
.HP
.B mode
.RI [ " mode-name " ]
.br
Set the \*(lqtransfer mode\*(rq to
.IR mode-name .
The only valid
.I mode-name
is
.BR stream ,
which corresponds to the default \*(lqstream\*(rq mode.
.TP
.BI mput " local-files"
Expand wild cards in the list of local files given as arguments
and do a
.B put
for each file in the resulting list.
See
.B glob
for details of filename expansion.
Resulting file names will then be processed according to
.B ntrans
and
.B nmap
settings.
.br
.ne 6
.HP
.B nmap
.RI [ " inpattern outpattern " ]
.br
Set or unset the filename mapping mechanism.
If no arguments are specified, the filename mapping mechanism is unset.
If arguments are specified, remote filenames are mapped during
.B mput
commands and
.B put
commands issued without a specified remote target filename.
If arguments are specified, local filenames are mapped during
.B mget
commands and
.B get
commands issued without a specified local target filename.
.IP
This command is useful when connecting to a non-\s-1UNIX\s0-system
remote host with different file naming conventions or practices.
The mapping follows the pattern set by
.I inpattern
and
.IR outpattern .
.I inpattern
is a template for incoming filenames (which may have already been
processed according to the
.B ntrans
and
.B case
settings).
Variable templating is accomplished by including the sequences
.BR $1 ,
.BR $2 ", .\|.\|.\|, " $9
in
.IR inpattern .
Use
.B \e
to prevent this special treatment of the
.B $
character.
All other characters are treated literally, and are used to determine the
.B nmap
.I inpattern
variable values.
.IP
For example, given
.I inpattern
.B $1.$2
and the remote file name
.BR mydata.data ,
.B $1
would have the value \*(lqmydata\*(rq, and
.B $2
would have the value \*(lqdata\*(rq.
.IP
The
.I outpattern
determines the resulting mapped filename.
The sequences
.BR $1 ,
.BR $2 ", .\|.\|.\|, " $9
are replaced by any value resulting from the
.I inpattern
template.
The sequence
.B $0
is replaced by the original filename.
Additionally, the sequence
.RI `[ \|seq1\| , \|seq2\| ]'
is replaced by
.I seq1
if
.I seq1
is not a null string; otherwise it is replaced by
.IR seq2 .
.IP
For example, the command
.RB ` "nmap $1.$2.$3 [$1,$2].[$2,file]" '
would yield the output filename
.B myfile.data
for input filenames
.B myfile.data
and
.BR myfile.data.old ,
.B myfile.file
for the input filename
.BR myfile ,
and
.B myfile.myfile
for the input filename
.BR .myfile .
.SM SPACE
characters may be included in
.IR outpattern ,
as in the example `\fBnmap $1 | sed "s/  *$//" > $1\fP'.
Use the
.B \e
character to prevent special treatment
of the
.RB ` $ ',
.RB ` [ ',
.RB ` ] '
and
.RB ` , '
characters.
.HP
.BR  ntrans " [ "
.IR inchars " [ " outchars " ] ]"
.br
Set or unset the filename character translation mechanism.
If no arguments are specified, the filename character
translation mechanism is unset.
If arguments are specified, characters in
remote filenames are translated during
.B mput
commands and
.B put
commands issued without a specified remote target filename, and
characters in local filenames are translated during
.B mget
commands and
.B get
commands issued without a specified local target filename.
.IP
This command is useful when connecting to a non-\s-1UNIX\s0-system
remote host with different file naming conventions or practices.
Characters in a filename matching a character in
.I inchars
are replaced with the corresponding character in
.IR outchars .
If the character's position in
.I inchars
is longer than the length of
.IR outchars ,
the character is deleted from the file name.
.HP
.BI open " host"
.RI [ " port " ]
.br
Establish a connection to the specified
.I host
.SM FTP
server.
An optional port number may be supplied, in which case, 
.B ftp
will attempt to contact an 
.SM FTP
server at that port.
If the 
.I auto-login
option is on (default), 
.B ftp
will also attempt to automatically log the user in to the 
.SM FTP
server (see below).
.TP
.B prompt
Toggle interactive prompting. 
Interactive prompting
occurs during multiple file transfers to allow the
user to selectively retrieve or store files.
By default, prompting is turned on.
If prompting is turned off, any
.B mget
or
.B mput
will transfer all files, and any
.B mdelete
will delete all files.
.TP
.BI proxy " ftp-command"
Execute an 
.SM FTP
command on a secondary control connection.
This command allows simultaneous connection to two remote 
.SM FTP
servers for transferring files between the two servers.
The first
.B proxy
command should be an
.BR open ,
to establish the secondary control connection.
Enter the command
.RB ` "proxy ?" '
to see other 
.SM FTP
commands executable on the secondary connection.
.br
.ne 6
.IP
The following commands behave differently when prefaced by
.BR proxy :
.B open
will not define new macros during the auto-login process,
.B close
will not erase existing macro definitions,
.B get
and
.B mget
transfer files from the host on the primary control connection
to the host on the secondary control connection, and
.BR put ,
.BR mput ,
and
.B append
transfer files from the host on the secondary control connection
to the host on the primary control connection.
.IP
Third party file transfers depend upon support of the
.SB PASV
command by the server on the secondary control connection.
.HP
.BI put " local-file"
.RI [ " remote-file" ]
.br
Store a local file on the remote machine.  If 
.I remote-file
is left unspecified, the local file name is used
after processing according to any
.B ntrans
or
.B nmap
settings in naming the remote file.
File transfer uses the current settings for \*(lqrepresentation type\*(rq,
\*(lqfile structure\*(rq, and \*(lqtransfer mode\*(rq.
.TP
.B pwd
Print the name of the current working directory on the remote
machine.
.TP
.B quit
A synonym for
.BR bye .
.TP
.BI quote " arg1 arg2\fR .\|.\|."
Send the arguments specified, verbatim, to the remote 
.SM FTP
server.  A single 
.SM FTP
reply code is expected in return.
.HP
.BI recv " remote-file"
.RI [ " local-file"  ]
.br
A synonym for
.BR get .
.HP
.B remotehelp
.RI [ " command-name " ]
.br
Request help from the remote 
.SM FTP
server.
If a 
.I command-name
is specified it is supplied to the server as well.
.TP
.BI rename " from to"
Rename the file
.I from
on the remote machine to have the name
.IR to .
.TP
.B reset
Clear reply queue.
This command re-synchronizes command/reply sequencing with the remote
.SM FTP
server.
Resynchronization may be necessary following a violation of the 
.SM FTP
protocol
by the remote server.
.TP
.BI rmdir " directory-name"
Delete a directory on the remote machine.
.TP
.B runique
Toggle storing of files on the local system with unique filenames.
If a file already exists with a name equal to the target
local filename for a
.B get
or
.B mget
command, a
.RB ` \&.1 '
is appended to the name.
If the resulting name matches another existing file, a
.RB ` \&.2 '
is appended to the original name.
If this process continues up to
.RB ` \&.99 ',
an error message is printed, and the transfer does not take place.
The generated unique filename will be reported.
Note: 
.B runique
will not affect local files generated from a shell command
(see below).
The default value is off.
.HP
.BI send " local-file"
.RI [ " remote-file " ]
.br
A synonym for
.BR put .
.TP
.B sendport
Toggle the use of
.SB PORT
commands.  By default, 
.B ftp
will attempt to use a
.SB PORT
command when establishing
a connection for each data transfer.
The use of
.SB PORT
commands can prevent delays
when performing multiple file transfers. If the
.SB PORT
command fails, 
.B ftp
will use the default data port. 
When the use of
.SB PORT
commands is disabled, no attempt will be made to use
.SB PORT
commands for each data transfer.  This is useful
when connected to certain 
.SM FTP
implementations that ignore
.SB PORT
commands but incorrectly indicate they have been accepted.
.TP
.B status
Show the current status of
.BR ftp .
.br
.ne 5
.HP
.B struct
.RI [ " struct-name " ]
.br
Set the \*(lqfile structure\*(rq to
.IR struct-name .
The only valid
.I struct-name
is
.BR file ,
which corresponds to the default \*(lqfile\*(rq structure.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B sunique
Toggle storing of files on remote machine under unique file names.
The remote 
.SM FTP
server must support the
.SB STOU
command for successful completion.
The remote server will report the unique name.
Default value is off.
.TP
.B tenex
Set the \*(lqrepresentation type\*(rq to that needed to
talk to
.SM TENEX
machines.
.TP
.B trace
Toggle packet tracing (unimplemented).
.TP
.B type
.RI [ " type-name " ]
.br
Set the \*(lqrepresentation type\*(rq to
.IR type-name .
The valid
.IR type-name s
are
.B ascii
for \*(lqnetwork
.SM ASCII\s0\*(rq,
.B binary
or
.B image
for \*(lqimage\*(rq,
and
.B tenex
for \*(lqlocal byte size\*(rq with a byte size of 8 (used to talk to
.SM TENEX
machines).
If no type is specified, the current type
is printed.  The default type is \*(lqnetwork
.SM ASCII\s0\*(rq.
.HP
.BI user " user-name"
.RI [ " password " "] [ " account " ]"
.br
Identify yourself to the remote 
.SM FTP
server. 
If the password is not specified and the server requires it,
.B ftp
will prompt the user for it (after disabling local echo).
If an account field is not specified, and the 
.SM FTP
server requires it, the user will be prompted for it.
If an account field is specified, an account command will
be relayed to the remote server after the login sequence
is completed if the remote server did not require it
for logging in.
Unless
.B ftp
is invoked with \*(lqauto-login\*(rq disabled, this
process is done automatically on initial connection to the 
.SM FTP
server.
.TP
.B verbose
Toggle verbose mode.
In verbose mode, all responses from the 
.SM FTP
server are displayed to the user.
In addition,
if verbose mode is on, when a file transfer completes, statistics
regarding the efficiency of the transfer are reported. 
By default, verbose mode is on if
.BR ftp 's
commands are coming from a terminal, and off otherwise.
.HP
.B ?
.RI [ " command " ]
.br
A synonym for
.BR help .
.LP
Command arguments which have embedded spaces may be quoted with
quote (\fB"\fR) marks.
.LP
If any command argument which is not indicated as being optional is
not specified,
.B ftp
will prompt for that argument.
.SH "ABORTING A FILE TRANSFER"
To abort a file transfer, use the terminal interrupt key
(usually
.SM CTRL-C\s0).
Sending transfers will be immediately halted.
Receiving transfers will be halted by sending a ftp protocol
.SB ABOR
command to the remote server, and discarding any further data received.
The speed at which this is accomplished depends upon the remote
server's support for
.SB ABOR
processing.
If the remote server does not support the
.SB ABOR
command, an \*(lqftp>\*(rq
prompt will not appear until the remote server has completed
sending the requested file.
.PP
The terminal interrupt key sequence will be ignored when
.B ftp
has completed any local processing and is awaiting a reply
from the remote server.
A long delay in this mode may result from the
.SB ABOR
processing described
above, or from unexpected behavior by the remote server, including
violations of the ftp protocol.
If the delay results from unexpected remote server behavior, the local
.B ftp
program must be killed by hand.
.SH "FILE NAMING CONVENTIONS"
Local files specified as arguments to
.B ftp
commands are processed according to the following rules.
.TP
1)
If the file name
.RB ` \- '
is specified, the standard input (for reading) or standard output
(for writing) is used.
.br
.ne 6
.TP
2)
If the first character of the file name is 
.RB ` | ',
the remainder of the argument is interpreted as a shell command.
.B ftp
then forks a shell, using 
.BR popen (3S)
with the argument supplied, and reads (writes) from the standard output
(standard input) of that shell.  If the shell command includes
.SM SPACE
characters, the argument
must be quoted; for example `\fB"| ls \-lt"\fR'.
A particularly useful example of this mechanism is:
.RB ` "dir | more" '.
.TP
3)
Failing the above checks, if \*(lqglobbing\*(rq is enabled,
local file names are expanded
according to the rules used in the 
.BR csh (1);
see the
.B glob
command. 
If the
.B ftp
command expects a single local file (for example,
.BR put ),
only the first filename generated by the \*(lqglobbing\*(rq operation is used.
.br
.ne 4
.TP
4)
For
.B mget
commands and
.B get
commands with unspecified local file names, the local filename is
the remote filename, which may be altered by a
.BR case ,
.BR ntrans ,
or
.B nmap
setting.
The resulting filename may then be altered if
.B runique
is on.
.TP
5)
For
.B mput
commands and
.B put
commands with unspecified remote file names, the remote filename is
the local filename, which may be altered by a
.B ntrans
or
.B nmap
setting.
The resulting filename may then be altered by the remote server if
.B sunique
is on.
.SH "FILE TRANSFER PARAMETERS"
The 
.SM FTP
specification specifies many parameters which may
affect a file transfer.
.LP
The \*(lqrepresentation type\*(rq
may be one of \*(lqnetwork
.SM ASCII\s0\*(rq,
\*(lq\s-1EBCDIC\s0\*(rq, \*(lqimage\*(rq,
or \*(lqlocal byte size\*(rq with a specified
byte size (for
.SM PDP\s0-10's
and 
.SM PDP\s0-20's
mostly).  The \*(lqnetwork
.SM ASCII\s0\*(rq
and \*(lq\s-1EBCDIC\s0\*(rq
types have a further subtype which
specifies whether vertical format control
(\s-1NEWLINE\s0 characters, form feeds, etc.) are to be passed
through (\*(lqnon-print\*(rq),
provided in
.SM TELNET
format (\*(lq\s-1TELNET\s0 format controls\*(rq),
or provided in
.SM ASA
(\s-1FORTRAN\s0) (\*(lqcarriage control (\s-1ASA\s0)\*(rq) format.
.B ftp
supports the \*(lqnetwork
.SM ASCII\s0\*(rq
(subtype \*(lqnon-print\*(rq only)
and \*(lqimage\*(rq types, plus \*(lqlocal byte size\*(rq
with a byte size of 8 for communicating with
.SM TENEX
machines.
.LP
The \*(lqfile structure\*(rq may be one of \*(lqfile\*(rq
(no record structure), \*(lqrecord\*(rq, or \*(lqpage\*(rq.
.B ftp
supports only the default value, which is \*(lqfile\*(rq.
.LP
The \*(lqtransfer mode\*(rq may be one of \*(lqstream\*(rq,
\*(lqblock\*(rq, or \*(lqcompressed\*(rq.
.B ftp
supports only the default value, which is \*(lqstream\*(rq.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR csh (1),
.BR ls (1V),
.BR rcp (1C),
.BR tar (1),
.BR popen (3S),
.BR netrc (5),
.BR ftpd (8C)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Correct execution of many commands depends upon proper behavior
by the remote server.
.LP
An error in the treatment of carriage returns in the 4.2
.SM BSD
code handling transfers with a \*(lqrepresentation type\*(rq of
\*(lqnetwork
.SM ASCII\s0\*(rq
has been corrected.
This correction may result in incorrect transfers of binary files
to and from 4.2
.SM BSD
servers using a \*(lqrepresentation type\*(rq of
\*(lqnetwork
.SM ASCII\s0\*(rq.
Avoid this problem by using the \*(lqimage\*(rq type.
