.\" @(#)get_selection.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH GET_SELECTION 1 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
get_selection  \- copy the contents of a SunView selection to the standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
get_selection
[
.I rank
] [
.BI t " seconds"
] [
.B D
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I SunView User's
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX get_selection "" " \fLget_selection\fR \(em copy a SunView selection to standard output"
.IX "selection, copy to standard output \(em \fLget_selection\fR"
.LP
.B get_selection
prints the contents of the indicated
selection
on standard out.  A selection is a collection of objects (for instance, characters)
picked with the mouse in the SunView window system.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.I rank
Indicate which selection is to be printed:
.RS
.nf
.BR 1 ":  primary;"
.BR 2 ":  secondary;"
.BR 3 ":  clipboard."
.fi
.RE
.IP
The default is primary.
.TP
.B t " seconds"
Indicate how many seconds to wait for
the holder of a selection to respond to
a request before giving up.  The default is 6 seconds.
.TP
.B D
Debugging. Inquire through a special
debugging service for the selection,
rather than accessing the standard service.
Useful only for debugging window
applications which are clients of the selection library.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
The following line in a SunView root
menu file provides a menu command
to print the primary selection on the user's default printer:
.IP
.nf
.B "``Print It''      sh  \-c get_selection | lpr"
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.TX SVBG
