.\" @(#)getopt.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2 6.2
.TH GETOPT 1V "17 September 1989"
.SH NAME
getopt \- parse command options in shell scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B set \-\|\- `getopt
.I opstring
.B $*`
.br
.B set argv = (`getopt
.I opstring 
.B $*`)
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX command "process options in scripts \(em \fLgetopt\fR"
.IX getopt "" "\fLgetopt\fR \(em process options in scripts"
.B getopt
breaks up options in command lines for easy parsing by shell
scripts, and checks for legal options.
.I optstring
is a string of option letters to recognize, (see
.BR getopt (3)).
If a letter is followed by a colon, the option
is expected to have an argument \(em
which may or may not be separated by white space.
.LP
(The
.RB ` \-\|\- '
following
.B set
indicates that the Bourne shell is to pass arguments
beginning with a dash as parameters to the script.)
.LP
If
.RB ` \- '
appears on the command line that invokes the script,
.B getopt
uses it to delimit the end of options it is
to parse (see example below).
If used explicitly,
.B getopt
will recognize it; otherwise,
.B getopt
will generate it at the first argument it encounters that has no
.RB ` \- '.
In either case,
.B getopt
places it at the end of the options.  The positional parameters
.RB ( $1
.BR $2 .\|.\|.\|)
of the shell are reset so that each option in
.I optstring
is broken out and preceded by a
.RB ` \- ',
along with the argument (if any) for each.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
The following code fragment shows how one might process the arguments
for a command that can take the options
.B a
or
.BR b ,
as well as the option
.BR o ,
which requires an argument:
.sp .5
.RS
.nf
.ft B
.ta +.5i +1i
#! /usr/bin/sh
set \-\|\- \*`getopt abo: $*`
if [ $? != 0 ]
then
	echo $\s-1USAGE\s+1
	exit 2
fi
for i in $*
do
	case $i in
	\-a \(bv \-b) \s-1FLAG\s+1 =$i; shift;;
	\-o)	\s-1OARG\s+1 =$2; shift 2;;
	\-\|\-)	shift; break;;
	esac
done
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
This code will accept any of the following
command lines as equivalent:
.RS
.nf
.ft B
cmd \-a \-o arg \0f1 \0f2
cmd \-aoarg \0f1 \0f2
cmd \-oarg \-a \0f1 \0f2
cmd \-a \-oarg \-\|\- \0f1 \0f2
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR csh (1),
.BR getopts (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR getopt (3)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B getopt
prints an error message on the standard
error when it encounters an option
letter not included in
.IR optstring .
.SH NOTES
.BR getopts (1)
is preferred.
