.\" @(#)gfxtool.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH GFXTOOL 1 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
gfxtool \- run graphics programs in a SunView window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX gfxtool "" "\fLgfxtool\fR \(em SunWindows graphics tool"
.IX "graphics tool \(em \fLgfxtool\fR"
.IX "SunWindows, graphics tool \(em \fLgfxtool\fR"
.br
.B gfxtool
[
.B \-C
] [
.I program
[
.I arguments
] ]
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I SunView User's
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B gfxtool
is a standard tool provided with the
.I SunView
environment.
It runs graphics programs that do not overwrite the
terminal emulator from which they run.
.LP
.B gfxtool
has two subwindows: a terminal subwindow and an empty subwindow.
The terminal subwindow contains a running shell,
just like the shelltool
(see
.BR shelltool (1)).
Programs invoked in the terminal subwindow can run in the empty
subwindow. 
You can move the boundary between these two subwindows
as described in
.BR sunview (1).
If you wish, you can make
.B gfxtool
your console by entering \-C as the first argument.
.LP
Normally you can use the mouse and keyboard anywhere in the
empty subwindow to access frame functions.  However, some
graphics programs which run in this window may take over
inputs directed to it.
For example, SunCore uses the mouse and keyboard for its own input.
When you run such tools, access the Frame Menu from the tool
boundaries or frame header.
.LP
.B gfxtool
also accepts all of the generic tool arguments; see
.BR sunview (1)
for a list of these arguments.
.LP
If a
.I program
argument is present,
.B gfxtool
runs it.
If there are no arguments,
.B gfxtool
runs the program corresponding to your
.SB SHELL
environment variable.
If this environment variable is not available, then
.B gfxtool
runs
.BR sh (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-C
Redirect system console output to this instance of
.BR gfxtool .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B ~/.ttyswrc
.TP
.B /usr/demo/*
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sh (1),
.BR shelltool (1),
.BR sunview (1),
.BR graphics_demos (6)
.SH BUGS
.LP
If more than 256 characters are input to a terminal emulator
subwindow without an intervening
.SM NEWLINE\s0,
the terminal emulator may hang.
If this occurs, display the Frame Menu; the
.RB ` "\s-1TTY\s0 Hung?" '
submenu there has one item,
.RB ` "Flush input" ',
that you can invoke to correct the problem.
