.\" @(#)graph.1g 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH GRAPH 1G "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
graph \- draw a graph
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B graph
[
.B \-a
.I spacing
[
.I start
]\|]\ \ [
.B \-b
]\ \ [
.B \-c
.I string
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-g
.I gridstyle 
]\ \ [
.B \-l
.I label 
]
.if t .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-m
.I connectmode
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-s
]\ \ [
\fB\-x
[
.B l
]
.I lower
[
.I upper
[
.I spacing
]\|]\|]
.if n .ti +0.5i
.if t .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-y
[
.B l
]
.I lower
[
.I upper
[
.I spacing
]\|]\|]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-h
.I fraction 
]\ \ [
.B \-w
.I fraction
]\ \ [
.B \-r
.I fraction
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
.if t .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-u
.I fraction 
]\ \ [
.B \-t
] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "graph command"  ""  "\fLgraph\fP \(em draw graph"
.IX "draw graph"
.B graph
with no options takes pairs of numbers from the standard input
as abscissaes and ordinates of a graph. 
Successive points are connected by straight lines. 
The standard output from 
.B graph
contains plotting instructions (see
.BR plot (5))
suitable for input to 
.BR plot (1G)
or to the command
.B "lpr \-g"
(see 
.BR lpr (1)).
.LP
If the coordinates of a point are followed by a nonnumeric string, that
string is printed as a label beginning on the point.
Labels may be surrounded with quotes
\fB".\|.\|."\fR,
in which case they may be empty or contain blanks
and numbers; labels never contain
.SM NEWLINE
characters.
.LP
A legend indicating grid range is produced with a grid unless the
.B \-s
option is present.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Each option is recognized as a separate argument.
If a specified lower limit exceeds the
upper limit, the axis is reversed.
.TP 18
.BI  \-a \ spacing [ " start " ]
Supply abscissaes automatically (they are missing from
the input);
.I spacing
is the spacing (default 1). 
.I start
is the starting point for automatic abscissaes
(default 0 or lower limit given by
.BR \-x ).
.TP
.B  \-b
Break (disconnect) the graph after each label in the input.
.TP
.BI  \-c " string"
.I String
is the default label for each point.
.TP
.BI  \-g " gridstyle"
.I Gridstyle
is the grid style: 0 no grid, 1 frame with ticks, 2
full grid (default).
.TP
.B  \-l
.I label
is label for graph.
.TP
.BI  \-m " connectmode"
Mode (style) of connecting lines: 0 disconnected, 1
connected (default).  Some devices give distinguishable line styles
for other small integers.
.TP
.B  \-s
Save screen, do not erase before plotting.
.HP
.BI "\-x [ l ] " lower " [ " upper 
.BI [ " spacing " "] ]"
.br
If
.B l
is present,
.I x
axis is logarithmic.
.IR lower " and " upper
are lower (and upper)
.IR x ""
limits. 
.IR spacing ,
if present, is grid spacing on
.I x
axis.  Normally these quantities are determined automatically.
.HP
.BI "\-y [ l ] " lower " [ " upper 
.BI [ " spacing " "] ]"
.br
If
.B l
is present,
.I y
axis is logarithmic.
.IR lower " and " upper
are lower (and upper)
.IR y ""
limits. 
.IR spacing ,
if present, is grid spacing on
.I y
axis.  Normally these quantities are determined automatically.
.TP
.BI  \-h " fraction"
.I fraction
of space for height.
.TP
.BI  \-w " fraction"
.I fraction
of space for width.
.TP
.BI  \-r " fraction"
.I fraction
of space to move right before plotting.
.TP
.BI  \-u " fraction"
.I fraction
of space to move up before plotting.
.TP
.B  \-t
Transpose horizontal and vertical axes.
Option
.B \-x
now applies to the vertical axis.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lpr (1),
.BR plot (1G),
.BR spline (1G)
.br
.ne 6
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B graph
stores all points internally and drops those for which there
is no room.
.LP
Segments that run out of bounds are dropped, not windowed.
.LP
Logarithmic axes may not be reversed.
