.\" @(#)help_open.1	1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH HELP_OPEN 1 "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
help_open \- use help_viewer to open a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B help_open
[
.B \-a
]
[
.I filename
[
.I page_number
] ]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "help_open command"  ""  "\fLhelp_open\fP \(em open help_viewer file"
.IX "commands"  "help_open command"  ""  "\fLhelp_open\fP \(em open help_viewer file"
.LP
.B help_open
is used to cause a running 
.BR help_viewer (1)
to open a file.
.I filename
is typically the name of a 
.B help_viewer 
file.  A call is made to 
.B help_viewer
using the same 
.SM RPC
mechanism as is used by Spot Help.
.LP
If
.I filename
is relative, 
.B help_viewer 
looks for it relative to the default help directory (as defined 
in the user's
.B \&.defaults
database).  Otherwise, 
.B help_viewer 
treats
.I filename
as an absolute pathname.
.LP
If the 
.SM RPC
call to 
.B help_viewer
fails, 
.B help_open
attempts to spawn 
.BR  help_viewer , 
with
.I filename
as a command line argument.  If the 
.B \-a
command line option was given, then
.I filename
is first converted to an absolute pathname, as described in
.SM OPTIONS\s0, 
below.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Convert
.I filename
to an absolute pathname.
This option causes 
.B help_open 
to get the current working directory and append it to the front of
.I filename
(thus creating an absolute pathname) before passing
.I filename
on to
.BR help_viewer . 
This allows
.B  help_open
to be used with other processes, such as Sun Organizer (see
.BR organizer (1)),
which deal in relative pathnames.  The 
.B \-a 
option has no effect if
.I filename
begins with the character '/'.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
In the first example,
.B help_viewer
opens the file
.BR  help/Help_Basics .
This file is located relative to the default help
directory (as defined in the user's
.B \&.defaults
database).
If the default help directory is set to
.BR /vol/help/language/\s-1USA\s0-English ,
this is 
.BR /vol/help/language/\s-1USA\s0-English/help/Help_Basics .
.RS
.PP
.nf
.B example% help_open help/Help_Basics
.B example%
.fi
.RE
.PP
The second example is the same as the first, but it opens 
.B Help_Basics
to page 3.
.RS
.PP
.nf
.B example% help_open \(lqhelp/Help_Basics 3\(rq
.B example%
.fi
.RE
.PP
In the next example, 
.B help_viewer
opens
.B somefile
using the absolute pathname,
.BR /home/mtravis/somefile .
.RS
.PP
.nf
.B example% help_open /home/mtravis/somefile
.B example%
.fi
.RE
.PP
In the last example, 
.B help_viewer 
opens
.BR /home/ahinkle/anotherfile .
.RS
.PP
.nf
.B example% cd /home/ahinkle
.B example% help_open \-a anotherfile
.B example%
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/help/*
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR help_viewer (1),
.BR organizer (1),
.BR help (5),
.BR help_viewer (5)
.LP
.I Sun386i User's Guide
.br
.I Sun386i Developer's Guide
