.\" @(#)help_viewer.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH HELP_VIEWER 1 "19 February 1988"
.SH NAME
help_viewer \- SunView application providing help with applications and desktop
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/help_viewer
[
.BI \-A " time"
] [
.BI \-dir " dirname"
] [
.IR filename " [ " \fB#\fP " ] ]"
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "help_viewer command"  ""  "\fLhelp_viewer\fP \(em get help_viewer"
.IX "commands"  "help_viewer command"  ""  "\fLhelp_viewer\fP \(em get help_viewer"
.LP
.B help_viewer
accesses help documentation about SunView applications and the SunView
Desktop.  This help consists of intermixed text and graphics
This help consists of intermixed text and graphics
displayed in a window called the Help Viewer.
.LP
You start and control
.B help_viewer 
by one of these methods:
.TP 3
\(bu
Typing 
.B help_viewer
at a shell prompt.
.TP 3
\(bu
Clicking on the More Help button in a Spot Help window.
.TP 3
\(bu
Sending instructions to the Help Viewer using the 
.B help_open 
command.  
.LP
.I filename
is the name of startup file relative to help directory (or
.B /vol/help
by default, as set in the Help category of defaultsedit).
.I #
is a page number separated from the filename by a \s-1SPACE\s0.
If
.I #
is omitted, the first page is shown.
.LP
The documentation within
.B help_viewer
is extensible, but as shipped it includes
handbooks for the Desktop,
.BR mailtool (1), 
.BR shelltool (1),
.BR textedit (1),
.BR sunview (1),
.BR organizer (1), 
.BR dos (1),
.BR coloredit (1),
.BR snap (1), 
and itself
.RB ( help_viewer ). 
.LP
Developers and users can include additional handbooks by modifying
.BR /vol/help/format/Top_Level .
See 
.BR help_viewer (5).
.LP
The user moves between the various pages of help with the assistance 
of hypertext
.IR links . 
Links are connections between pages of text.
The convention is to use underlined text to indicate the
presence of a link.
When the user double-clicks on a link, the text associated with the topic 
indicated by the link is shown
in the Help Viewer. There are links in many places to make it quick and easy to
go from place to place within the
.B help_viewer 
database. 
.LP
Many help topics contain more 
than one page
of text.  In these cases, links to the next page and to the previous page 
are available
at the upper-right corner of the Help Viewer, allowing the user to page 
through the document. 
.LP
The user's current position within
the hierarchy of text is indicated by the links at the upper-left
corner of the Help Viewer.  The last link in the list is the level just
above the user's current position.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The standard SunView options for window size, position, fonts, and other
options are accepted. But note that the font setting only affects the
font in the Help Viewer namestripe.  Also, Help Viewer text does not wrap
as a window is resized. See
.BR sunview (1)
for details.
.TP 15
.BI \-A " time"
Sets autoclose for
.I time
minutes.  If the help window is not used for
.I time
minutes, it closes automatically.
.TP
.BI \-dir " dirname"
Name of the help directory
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /vol/help
automount point of miscellaneous help files
.PD
.LP
The files in
.B /usr/lib/help
are used by the 
.B help 
and the
.B help_viewer
facilities, and the
.SM SCCS
.BR sccs-help (1)
facility.
.LP
Directories within
.B /usr/lib/help
named after SunView applications
and the Desktop contain specific information used by
.BR help_viewer .
See
.BR help_viewer (5)
for information
about the files in these directories.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR mailtool (1),
.BR shelltool (1),
.BR textedit (1),
.BR help_open (1),
.BR help_viewer (5)
.sp .5
.I Sun386i User's Guide
.sp .5
.I Sun386i Developer's Guide
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.BR help_viewer (1)
displays a pop-up error window if it cannot find the file required to show
the requested help.
