.\" @(#)iconedit.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH ICONEDIT 1 "2 October 1989"
.SH NAME
iconedit \- create and edit images for SunView icons, cursors and panel items
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B iconedit
[
.I filename
]
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.B iconedit
accepts the standard SunView command-line arguments; see
.BR sunview (1)
for a list.
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I SunView User's
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "SunView" "iconedit" "" "\fLiconedit\fR"
.IX "iconedit" "" "\fLiconedit\fR \(em edit icons"
.IX edit "icons \(em \fLiconedit\fR"
.LP
.B iconedit
is a standard tool provided with the SunView
environment.
With it you can create and edit small
images for use in icons, cursors,
panel items, etc.
.B iconedit
has several
subwindows:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
A large drawing area or
.I canvas
(on the left).
.TP 3
\(bu
A small proof area
for previewing a life-size version of the image being edited
(at the lower right).
.TP 3
\(bu
A control panel showing the options available and their
current state (at the center right).
.TP 3
\(bu
An area for status messages (at the upper right).
.TP 3
\(bu
An area containing instructions for
the use of the mouse (above the drawing
canvas).
.RE
.LP
Inside the canvas, use the left
button to draw and the middle button
to erase.  As you draw, an enlarged
version of the image appears in the
canvas, while a life-sized version of the
image appears in the proof area.
Use the right button to undo the previous operation.
.LP
While editing a cursor image, you can
try the cursor out against different
backgrounds and with different raster
operations by moving the cursor
into the proof area.
.SH CONTROL PANEL
.LP
The large control panel to the right
of the canvas contains many items
through which you can control
.BR iconedit .
Some items are buttons
which allow you to initiate commands,
some are text fields which you
type into, and some are choice items allowing
you select from a range
of options.  Use the left button to select
items.  Most items also have
a menu which you can invoke with the right button.
.LP
There are three text fields: the two at the top labeled
.B Dir:
and
.BR File: ,
and one to the right of the
.B abc
labeled
.BR Fill: .
A triangular caret points to the current
type-in position.  Typing
.SM RETURN
advances the caret to the next text field;
you can also move the caret
to a text field by selecting the field with the left button.
.LP
Each item in the control panel is described below:
.TP
.B Dir
The current directory.
.TP
.B File
The current filename.  The default is the filename given
on the command line.  You can request
filename completion by pressing
.SM ESC\s0.
.B iconedit
searches the current directory for files whose
names
begin with the string you entered.
If the filename search locates only one file,
that file will be loaded in.
In addition,
typing
.SM CTRL-L\s0,
.SM CTRL-S\s0,
.SM CTRL-B
or
.SM CTRL-Q
are equivalent to pressing the
.BR Load ,
.BR Store ,
.BR Browse ,
or
.B Quit
buttons, respectively.
.TP
.B Load
.BR  (Button)
Load the canvas from the file named in the
.BR File " field."
.TP
.B Store
.BR  (Button)
Store the current image in the file named in the
.BR File " field."
.TP
.B Browse
.BR  (Button)
Display all the images in the current directory in a popup panel.
When you select an image with the left button, it will be loaded
into the canvas for editing and the browsing panel will be hidden.
Pressing browse again will cause the panel to popup again
(it will come up immediately if the directory and file fields have
not been modified).
.TP
.B Quit
.BR  (Button)
Terminate processing.
Quitting requires confirmation.
.TP
.B Size
Alter the canvas size.  Choices are icon size (64 x 64 pixels)
or cursor size (16 x 16 pixels).
.TP
.B Grid
Display a grid over the drawing canvas,
or turn the grid off.
.TP
.B Clear
.BR  (Button)
Clear the canvas.
.TP
.B Fill
.BR  (Button)
Fill canvas with current rectangular fill pattern.
.TP
.B Invert
.BR  (Button)
Invert each pixel represented on the canvas.
.TP
.B Paintbrush
Select from among five painting modes.
Instructions for each painting
mode appear above the canvas.  The painting modes are:
.RS
.TP
.B dot
Paint a single dot at a time.
.TP
.B line
Draw a line.
To draw a line on the canvas, point to the
first endpoint of the line,
and press and hold the left mouse button.
While holding the button down, drag the
cursor to the second endpoint
of the line. 
Release the mouse button.
.TP
.B rectangle
Draw a rectangle.
To draw a rectangle on the canvas, point
to the first corner of the rectangle
and press and hold the left mouse button.
While holding the button down, drag the cursor to the diagonally
opposite corner of the rectangle.
Release the mouse button.
.IP
In the control panel,
the
.B Fill
field to the right of the rectangle
indicates the current rectangle fill pattern.
Any rectangles you paint on the canvas will
be filled with this pattern.
.TP
.B circle
Draw a circle.
To draw a circle on the canvas,
point to the center of the circle,
and press and hold the left mouse button.
While holding the button down, drag the cursor to the
desired edge of the circle.
Release the mouse button.
.IP
In the control panel,
the
.B Fill
field to the right of the circle
indicates the current circle fill pattern.
Any circles you paint on the canvas will be filled with this pattern.
.TP
.B abc
Insert text.
To insert text, move the painting hand to
.B abc
and type the desired text.
Then move the cursor to the canvas and press
and hold the left mouse button.
A box will appear where the text is to go.
Position the box as desired and release the mouse button.
.IP
In addition, you can choose the font in which to draw the text.
Point at the Fill field to the right of the
.B abc
and either click the
left mouse button to cycle through the available fonts
or press and hold the right mouse button to bring up a menu of fonts.
.RE
.LP
.TP
.B Load
This is the rasterop to be used when loading a file in from disk.
(See the
.TX PIXRCT
for details on rasterops).
.TP
.B Fill
This is the rasterop to be used when filling the canvas.
The source for this operation is the rectangle fill pattern,
and the destination is the canvas.
.TP
.B Proof
This is the rasterop to be used when rendering the proof image.
The source for this operation is the proof image,
and the destination is the proof background.
.TP
Proof background
The proof background can be changed to
allow you to preview how the image
will appear against a variety of patterns.
The squares just above the proof area
show the patterns available for use as the proof background pattern.
To change the proof background, point at the desired
pattern and click the left mouse button.
.br
.ne 8
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
The environment variables
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.B \s-1LC\s0_default
control the character classification
throughout
.BR iconedit .
On entry to
.BR iconedit ,
these environment variables are checked in the
following order:
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.BR \s-1LC\s0_default.
When a valid value is found,
remaining environment variables for character classification
are ignored.
For example, a new setting for
.B \s-1LANG\s0
does not override the current valid character
classification rules of
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 .
When none of the values is valid,
the shell character
classification defaults to the 
.SM POSIX.1 \*(lqC\*(rq
locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sunview (1)
.LP
.TX PIXRCT
