.\" @(#)indxbib.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH INDXBIB 1 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
indxbib \- create an inverted index to a bibliographic database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B indxbib
.IR database-file .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I Text
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  indxbib  ""  "\fLindxbib\fP \(em make inverted index"
.IX  "document production"  "indxbib"  ""  "\fLindxbib\fP \(em make inverted index"
.IX  "bibliography"  "indxbib"  ""  "\fLindxbib\fP \(em make inverted index"
.B indxbib
makes an inverted index to the named
.I database-file
(which must reside within the current directory),
typically for use by
.BR lookbib (1)
and
.BR refer (1).
A
.I database
contains bibliographic references
(or other kinds of information) separated by blank lines.
.LP
A bibliographic reference is a set of lines, constituting fields of
bibliographic information.  Each field
starts on a line beginning with a
.RB ` % ',
followed by a key-letter, then a blank, and finally the
contents of the field, which may continue
until the next line starting with
.RB ` % '.
.LP
.B indxbib
is a shell script that calls two programs:
.B /usr/lib/refer/mkey
and
.BR /usr/lib/refer/inv .
.B mkey
truncates words to 6 characters,
and maps upper case to lower case.  It
also discards words shorter than 3 characters,
words among the 100 most
common English words, and numbers (dates) < 1900 or > 2000.  These
parameters can be changed.  See
.B refer
in
.TX DOCS
for details.
.LP
.B indxbib
creates an entry file (with a
.B .ia
suffix), a posting file
.RB ( .ib ),
and a tag file
.RB ( .ic ),
in the working directory.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/refer/mkey
.TP
.B /usr/lib/refer/inv
.TP
.IB x .ia
entry file
.TP
.IB x .ib
posting file
.TP
.IB x .ic
tag file
.TP
.IB x .ig
reference file
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR addbib (1),
.BR lookbib (1),
.BR refer (1),
.BR roffbib (1),
.BR sortbib (1)
.LP
.TX DOCS
.SH BUGS
All dates should probably be indexed,
since many disciplines refer to literature
written in the 1800s or earlier.
.LP
.B indxbib
does not recognize pathnames.
