.\" @(#)input_from_defaults.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH INPUT_FROM_DEFAULTS 1 "8 September 1989"
.SH NAME
input_from_defaults, defaults_from_input \- update the current state of the mouse and keyboard from the defaults database, and vice versa
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX "defaults, update kernel from \(em \fLinput_from_defaults\fR"
.IX defaults_from_input "" "\fLdefaults_from_input\fR \(em update defaults from kernel"
.IX input_from_defaults "" "\fLinput_from_defaults\fR \(em update kernel from defaults database"
.B input_from_defaults
.br
.B defaults_from_input
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.TX SVBG 
software installation option. 
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B input_from_defaults
updates various parameters controlling
mouse- and keyboard-processing on the machine on
which it is run.
It should be used on systems which are running
the SunView window system.
The parameters control the distribution of
function keys on the keyboard, the assignment
of buttons on the mouse, the scaling of mouse-to-cursor
motion, and the effect of two
filters on mouse-motion originally provided
to compensate for defective mice.
The new values are taken from the
defaults database, starting with the file
.B .defaults
in the user's home
directory.
When
.B Private_only
is
.B False
in the
.B $\s-1HOME\s0/.defaults
file,
the
.B /usr/lib/defaults/*.d
file is consulted.
See
.BR defaultsedit (1)
for more information about the
defaults database.
.LP
.B defaults_from_input
is the inverse operation to
.BR input_from_defaults .
It updates the user's private defaults database (used by
.BR defaultsedit (1) )
to reflect the current state of
kernel input parameters listed above.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B $\s-1HOME\s0/.defaults
.TP
.B /usr/lib/defaults/*.d
.TP
.B $\s-1HOME\s0/.login
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR csh (1),
.BR defaultsedit (1)
.LP
.TX SVBG
.SH NOTES
The parameter settings set by
.B input_from_defaults
are lost when the system goes down.
To set them automatically on login,
.BR csh (1)
users can include the following in their
.B .login
files:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
if (`tty`==/dev/console) then
	echo 'Setting input defaults'
	input_from_defaults
endif
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B input_from_defaults
should be targetable
to any user's
.B .defaults
file.
