.\" @(#)install.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH INSTALL 1 "7 September 1988"
.SH NAME
install \- install files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B install
.RB [ " \-cs " ]
.RB [ " \-g "
.IR group " ]"
.RB [ " \-m "
.IR mode " ]"
.RB [ " \-o "
.IR owner " ]"
.I file1 file2
.LP
.B install
.RB [ " \-cs " ]
.RB [ " \-g "
.IR group " ]"
.RB [ " \-m "
.IR mode " ]"
.RB [ " \-o "
.IR owner " ]"
.I file .\|.\|.\ \|directory
.LP
.B install
.B " \-d "
.RB [ " \-g "
.IR group " ]"
.RB [ " \-m "
.IR mode " ]"
.RB [ " \-o "
.IR owner " ]"
.I directory
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I Install
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  install  ""  "\fLinstall\fP \(em install files"
.IX  "programming tools"  "install"  ""  "\fLinstall\fP \(em install files"
.IX  "system administration"  "install"  ""  "\fLinstall\fP \(em install files"
Install is used within makefiles to copy new versions of
files into a destination directory and to create the destination
directory itself.
.LP
The first two forms are similar to the
.BR cp (1)
command with the addition
that executable files can be stripped during the copy and the
owner, group, and mode of the installed file(s) can be given.
.LP
The third form can be used to create a destination directory with
the required owner, group and permissions.
.LP
Note:
.B install
uses no special privileges to copy files from one place to another.
The implications of this are:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 3
\(bu
You must have permission to read the files to be installed.
.TP 3
\(bu
You must have permission to copy into the destination file or directory.
.TP 3
\(bu
You must have permission to change the modes on the final copy of the
file if you want to use the
.B \-m
option to change modes. 
.TP 3
\(bu
You must be superuser if you want to specify the ownership of the
installed file with
.BR \-o .
If you are not the super-user, or if
.B \-o
is not in effect, the installed file will be owned by you,
regardless of who owns the original.
.PD
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.BI \-g " group"
Set the group ownership of the installed file or directory.
(staff by default)
.TP
.BI \-m " mode"
Set the mode for the installed file or directory.
(0755 by default)
.TP
.BI \-o " owner"
If run as root, set the ownership of the installed file to the
user-ID of
.IR owner .
.TP
.B \-c
Copy files.
In fact
.B install
.I always
copies files, but the
.B \-c
option is retained for backwards compatibility with old shell
scripts that might otherwise break.
.TP
.B \-s
Strip executable files after they are copied.
.TP
.B \-d
Create a directory.
Missing parent directories are created as required
as in
.BR "mkdir \-p" .
If the directory already exists, the owner, group and mode
will be set to the values given on the command line.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chgrp (1),
.BR chmod (1V),
.BR cp (1),
.BR mkdir (1),
.BR strip (1),
.BR chown (8)
