.\" @(#)ipcrm.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5 6.2
.TH IPCRM 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
ipcrm \- remove a message queue, semaphore set, or shared memory ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipcrm
[
.I primitives
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "interprocess communication"  ipcrm  ""  \fLipcrm\fP
.IX  "ipcrm command" "" "\fLipcrm\fR \(em remove interprocess communication identifiers"
.B ipcrm
removes one or several messages, semaphores, or shared
memory identifiers, as specified
by the following
.IR primitives :
.TP
.BI \-q\fP  " msqid"
removes the message queue identifier
.I msqid
from the system and destroys the message queue
and data structures associated with it.
.TP
.BI \-m\fP  " shmid"
removes the shared memory identifier
.I shmid
from the system.  The shared memory segment and data
structures associated with it are destroyed after
the last detach.
.TP
.BI \-s\fP  " semid"
removes the semaphore identifier
.I semid
from the system and destroys the set of semaphores and
data structures associated with it.
.TP
.BI \-Q\fP  " msgkey"
removes the message queue identifier, created with key
.IR msgkey ,
from the system and destroys the message queue
and data structures associated with it.
.TP
.BI \-M\fP  " shmkey"
removes the shared memory identifier, created with key
.IR shmkey ,
from the system.  The shared memory segment and data
structures associated with it are destroyed after
the last detach.
.TP
.BI \-S\fP  " semkey"
removes the semaphore identifier, created with key
.IR semkey ,
from the system and destroys the set of semaphores and
data structures associated with it.
.LP
The identifiers and keys may be found by using
.BR ipcs (1).
.LP
The details of removing identifiers are described in
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR shmctl (2),
and
.BR semctl (2)
in the sections detailing the
.B
.SM IPC_RMID
command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ipcs (1),
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR msgget (2),
.BR semctl (2),
.BR semget (2),
.BR semop (2),
.BR shmctl (2),
.BR shmget (2),
.BR shmop (2)
