.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)kill.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.TH KILL 1 "16 November 1987"
.SH NAME
kill \- send a signal to a process, or terminate a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kill
[
.BI \- signal
]
.I pid
\fB\&.\|.\|.\fP
.br
.B kill
.B \-l
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "kill command"  ""  "\fLkill\fP \(em terminate process"
.IX  process  terminate  ""  "terminate \(em \fLkill\fR"
.IX send "signal to process \(em \fLkill\fR"
.B kill
sends the
.SB TERM
(terminate, 15) signal to the processes with the specified
.IR pid s.
If a signal name or number preceded by
.RB ` \- '
is given as first argument, that signal is sent instead of terminate.
The signal names are listed by using the
.B \-l
option, and are as given in
.BR <signal.h> ,
stripped of the common
.SB SIG
prefix.
.LP
The terminate signal will kill processes that do not catch the signal, so
.RB ` "kill \-9 " .\|.\|.'
is a sure kill, as the
.SB KILL
.B (9)
signal cannot be caught.
By convention, if process number 0 is specified, all members
in the process group (that is, processes resulting from 
the current login) are signaled (but beware: this works only if you use
.BR sh (1);
not if you use
.BR csh (1).)
Negative process numbers also have special meanings; see
.BR kill (2V)
for details.
The killed processes must belong to the current user unless
he is the super-user.
.LP
To shut the system down and bring it up single user
the super-user may send the initialization process a
.SB TERM
(terminate) signal by
.RB ` "kill 1" ';
see
.BR init (8).
To force
.B init
to close and open terminals according to what is currently in
.B /etc/ttytab
use
.RB ` "kill \-\s-1HUP\s0 1" '
(sending a hangup signal to process 1).
.LP
The shell reports the process number of an asynchronous process
started with
.RB ` & '
(run in the background).
Process numbers can also be found by using
.BR ps (1).
.LP
.B kill
is built in to
.BR csh (1);
it allows job specifiers, such as
.RB ` "kill  % " \|.\|.\|.',
in place of
.B kill
arguments.  See
.BR csh (1)
for details.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
Display a list of signal names.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/ttytab
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR csh (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR kill (2V),
.BR sigvec(2),
.BR init (8)
.SH BUGS
A replacement for
.RB ` "kill  0" '
for
.BR csh (1)
users should be provided.
