.\" @(#)lastcomm.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH LASTCOMM 1 "7 September 1989"
.SH NAME
lastcomm \- show the last commands executed, in reverse order
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lastcomm
[
.I command-name
] .\|.\|. [
.I user-name
] .\|.\|. [
.I terminal-name
] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "lastcomm command"  ""  "\fLlastcomm\fP \(em display last commands"
.IX  display "last commands \(em \fLlastcomm\fP"
.LP
.B lastcomm
gives information on previously executed commands.
.B lastcomm
with no arguments displays information about all the commands recorded
during the current accounting file's lifetime.
If called with arguments,
.B lastcomm
displays only accounting entries with a matching
.IR command-name ,
.IR user-name ,
or
.IR terminal-name .
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The command
.IP
.B example% lastcomm a.out root ttyd0
.LP
would produce a listing of all the executions of commands named
.BR a.out ,
by user
.B root
while using the terminal
.BR ttyd0 .
.IP
.B example% lastcomm root
.LP
would produce a listing of all the commands executed by user
.BR root .
.LP
For each process entry,
.B lastcomm
displays the following information:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
The command name under which the process was called.
.TP 3
\(bu
One or more flags indicating special information about the process.  The
flags have the following meanings:
.RS
.TP 3
.B F
The process performed a
.B fork
but not an
.BR exec .
.TP 3
.B S
The process ran as a set-user-id program.
.TP 3
.B D
The process dumped memory.
.TP 3
.B X
The process was killed by some signal.
.RE
.TP 3
\(bu
The name of the user who ran the process.
.TP 3
\(bu
The terminal from which the user was logged in at the time (if applicable).
.TP 3
\(bu
The amount of
.SM CPU
time used by the process (in seconds).
.TP 3
\(bu
The date and time the process starts.
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/adm/pacct
accounting file
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR last (1),
.BR sigvec (2),
.BR acct (5),
.BR core (5)
