.\" @(#)last.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH LAST 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
last \- indicate last logins by user or terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B last
[
.BI \- number
][
.B \-f
.I filename
] [
.IR name .\|.\|.
] [
.IR tty .\|.\|.
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "last command"  ""  "\fLlast\fP \(em list last logins"
.IX  login  "list last"  ""  "list last \(em \fLlast\fP"
.IX  "sign-on last \(em \fLlast\fP"
.IX  users  "list last logins"  ""  "list last logins \(em \fLlast\fP"
.B last
looks back in the
.B wtmp
file which records all logins and logouts for information about
a user, a teletype or any group of users and teletypes.
Arguments specify names of users or teletypes of interest.
Names of teletypes may be given fully or abbreviated.
For example
.B last 0
is the same as
.BI last tty0\fR.
If multiple arguments are given, the information which applies
to any of the arguments is printed.  For example
.B last root console
would list all of ``root's'' sessions as well as all sessions
on the console terminal.
.B last
displays the sessions of the specified users and teletypes,
most recent first, indicating the times at which the session
began, the duration of the session, and the teletype which the
session took place on.
If the session is still continuing or was cut short by a reboot,
.B last
so indicates.
.LP
The pseudo-user
.B reboot
logs in at reboots of the system, thus
.IP
.B last reboot
.LP
will give an indication of mean time between reboot.
.LP
.B last
with no arguments displays a record of all logins and logouts, in
reverse order.
.LP
If
.B last
is interrupted, it indicates how far the search has progressed in
.B wtmp.
If interrupted with a quit signal (generated by a
.SM CTRL\s0-\e)
.B last
indicates how far the search has progressed so far, and the search continues.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \- number
limit the number of entries displayed to that specified by
.IR number.
.TP
.BI \-f " filename"
Use
.I filename
as the name of the accounting file instead of
.BR /var/adm/wtmp .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/adm/wtmp	
login data base
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lastcomm (1),
.BR utmp (5V),
.BR ac (8)
