.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)leave.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 6.2 5/7/86
.TH LEAVE 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
leave \- remind you when you have to leave
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B leave
[\^[
.B +
]
.I hhmm
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "leave command"  ""  "\fLleave\fP \(em remind you of leaving time"
.IX  "reminder services"  "leave command"  ""  "\fLleave\fP \(em remind you of leaving time"
.IX  "timed event services"  "leave command"  ""  "\fLleave\fP \(em remind you of leaving time"
.B leave
sets an alarm to a time you specify and will tell you when the time is up.
.B leave
waits until the specified time, then reminds you that you have to leave.
You are reminded 5 minutes and 1 minute before the actual time,
and at the time.  After the specified time, it reminds you every minute
thereafter 10 more times.
.B leave
disappears after you log off.
.LP
You can specify the time in on of two ways, namely as an absolute time
of day in the form
.I hhmm
where
\fIhh\fP is a time in hours (on
a
12 or 24 hour clock), or you can place a
.B +
sign in front of the time, in which case the time is relative to the
current time, that is, the specified number of hours and minutes from
now.  All times are converted to a 12 hour clock, and assumed to be in
the next 12 hours.
.LP
If no argument is given,
.B leave
prompts with
.RB ` "When do you have to leave?" '.
.B leave
exits if you just type a
.SM NEWLINE\s0,
otherwise the reply is assumed to be a time.
This form is suitable for inclusion in a
.B .login
or
.BR .profile .
.LP
.B leave
ignores interrupts, quits, and terminates.  To get rid of it you should
either log off or use
.B kill\ \ \-9
and its process
.SM ID\s0.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The first example sets the alarm to an absolute time of day:
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
.B example% leave 1535
.B "Alarm set for Wed Mar  7 15:35:07 1984"
.sp
.RS
.I work  work  work  work
.RE
.sp
.B example% Time to leave!
.RE
.fi
.LP
The second example sets the alarm for 10 minutes in the future:
.RS
.sp .5
.B example% leave +10
.B Alarm set for Wed Mar  7 15:45:24 1984
.sp
.RS
.I work  work  work  work
.RE
.sp
.B example% Time to leave!
.sp
.RS
.I work  work  work  work
.RE
.sp
.B example% You're going to be late!
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B .login
.TP
.B .profile
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR calendar (1)
