.\" @(#)lint.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from 4.3 BSD and S5
.TH LINT 1V "23 February 1988"
.SH NAME
lint \- a C program verifier
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lint
[
.B \-abchinquvxz
] 
[
.BI \-D name\fR\|[ = def\|\fR]
]
[
.BI \-host= arch 
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-I directory
]
[
.BI \-l library
]
[
.BI \-o " outputfile"
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.BI \-target= arch
]
[
.BI \-U name
]
.I filename
\&.\|.\|.
.br
.B lint
[
.BI \-C library
]
[
.BI \-D name\fR\|[ = def\|\fR] 
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-host= arch
]
[
.BI \-I directory
]
[
.BI \-l library
]
[
.BI \-target= arch 
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.BI \-U name
]
.I filename
\&.\|.\|.
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/lint
[
.B \-abcghnpquvxzO
] 
[
.BI \-D name\fR\|[ = def\|\fR]
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-I directory
]
[
.BI \-l library
]
[
.BI \-o " outputfile"
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.BI \-U name
]
.I filename
\&.\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "System V commands" "\fLlint\fR"
.IX  "lint command"  ""  "\fLlint\fP \(em C program verifier"
.IX  "programming tools"  "lint command"  ""  "\fLlint\fP \(em C program verifier"
.IX  "programming languages"  "lint command"  ""  "\fLlint\fP \(em C program verifier"
.IX  languages  "lint command"  ""  "\fLlint\fP \(em C program verifier"
.IX  "C programming language"  "lint command"  ""  "\fLlint\fP \(em C program verifier"
.IX  "verifier, C programs \(em \fLlint\fP"
.LP
.B lint
attempts to detect features of the named C program files
that are likely to be bugs, to be non-portable, or to be wasteful.
It also performs stricter type checking than does the C compiler.
.B lint
runs the C preprocessor as its first phase, with the preprocessor symbol
.B lint
defined to allow certain questionable code to be altered or skipped by
.BR lint .
Therefore, this symbol should be thought of as a reserved word
for all code that is to be checked by
.BR lint .
.LP
Among the possible problems that are currently noted are unreachable
statements, loops not entered at the top, automatic variables declared
and not used, and logical expressions with constant values.
Function calls are checked for inconsistencies, such as calls to
functions that return values in some places and not in others,
functions called with varying numbers of arguments,
function calls that pass arguments of a type other than the type the function
expects to receive, functions whose values are not used,
and calls to functions not returning values that use the non-existent return
value of the function.
.LP
Filename arguments ending with
.B \&.c
are taken to be C source files.
Filename arguments with names ending with
.B \&.ln
are taken to be the result of an earlier invocation of
.BR lint ,
with either the
.B \-i
or the
.B \-C
option in effect.
The
.B \&.ln
files are analogous to the
.B \&.o
(object) files produced by the
.BR cc (1V)
from
.B \&.c
files.
.B lint
also accepts special libraries specified with the
.B \-l
option, which contain
simplified definitions of standard library routines (preprocessed by
.RB ` "lint \-C" ')
for faster checking of function calls.
.LP
.B lint
processes the various
.BR \&.c ", "  .ln ,
and
.BI llib-l library .ln
(lint library) files and process them in command-line order.
By default,
.B lint
appends the standard C lint library
.RB ( llib-lc.ln )
to the end of the list of files.
When the
.B \-C
and
.B \-i
options are
.I omitted
the second pass of
.B lint
checks this list of files for mutual compatibility.
When the
.B \-C
or the
.B \-i
options are used, the
.B \&.ln
and the
.BI llib-l library .ln
files are ignored.
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
Filename arguments with names ending with
.B \&.ln
are taken to be the result of an earlier invocation of
.BR lint ,
with either the
.B \-c
or the
.B \-o
option in effect.
.LP
.B lint
processes the various
.BR \&.c ", "  .ln ,
and
.BI llib-l library .ln
(lint library) files and process them in command-line order.
By default,
.B lint
appends the standard C lint library
.RB ( llib-lc.ln )
to the end of the list of files.
However, if the
.B \-p
option is used, the portable C lint library
.RB ( llib-port.ln )
is appended instead.
When the
.B \-c
option is
.I omitted
the second pass of
.B lint
checks this list of files for mutual compatibility.
When the
.B \-c
option is used, the
.B \&.ln
and the
.BI llib-l library .ln
files are ignored.
.LP
.B lint
produces its first-pass output on a per-source-file basis.
Complaints regarding included files are collected and printed
after all source files have been processed.
If the
.B \-c
option is not used,
information gathered from all input files is then collected and checked for
consistency.
At this point,
if it is not clear whether a complaint stems from a given source file or from
one of its included files,
the source file name is printed, followed by a question mark.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Report assignments of
.B long
values to variables that are not
.BR long .
.TP
.B \-b
Report
.B break
statements that cannot be reached.
This is not the default because, unfortunately, most 
.BR lex (1)
and many 
.BR yacc (1)
outputs produce many such complaints.
.TP
.B \-c
Complain about casts which have questionable portability.
.TP
.B \-h
Apply a number of heuristic tests to attempt to intuit bugs, improve style,
and reduce waste.
.TP
.B \-i
Produce a 
.B \&.ln
file for every 
.B \&.c
file on the command line.  These 
.B \&.ln
files are the product of 
.BR lint 's
first pass only, and are not checked for compatibility
between functions.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not check compatibility against the standard library.
.TP
.B \-q
Do not complain about constructs that do not cause portability problems between
current Sun implementations of the C language but that will cause portability
problems between other implementations.  If the
.B \-q
flag is specified,
.B lint
treats type
.B enum
as an
.BR int ,
treats type
.B long
as type
.B int
and type
.B unsigned long
as
.BR "unsigned int" ,
and treats a 0 argument as being conformable with any pointer.
.TP
.B \-u
Do not complain about functions and external variables used and not
defined, or defined and not used (this is suitable for running
.B lint
on a subset of files comprising part of a larger program).
.TP
.B \-v
Suppress complaints about unused arguments in functions.
.TP
.B \-x
Report variables referred to by
.B extern
declarations, but never used.
.TP
.B \-z
Do not complain about structures that are never defined (for example,
using a structure pointer without knowing its contents).
.TP
.BI \-C library
Create a 
.B lint
library with the name
.BI llib-l library .ln\fR.
.TP
.BI \-D name\fR[ = def\fR]
Define 
.I name
for 
.BR cpp (1),
as if by a
.B #define
directive.
If no definition is given, 
.I name
is defined as 1.
.TP
\fB\-host=\fIarch\fR	(Sun-2, Sun-3, and Sun-4 systems only)
Define the host architecture to be
.IR arch .
The default is the architecture returned by the
.BR arch (1)
command.
.I arch
can be one of
.BR sun2 ,
.BR sun3 ,
or
.BR sun4 .
.TP
.BI \-I directory
Add
.I directory
to the list of list of directories in which to search for
include files.  Include files with names that do not begin
with 
.B /
are always sought first in the directory of the
.I filename
argument, then in directories named in 
.B \-I
options, then in the
.B /usr/include
directory.
.TP
.BI \-l library
Use the lint library
.I library
from the
.B /usr/lib/lint
directory.
.TP
.BI \-o " outputfile"
Name the output file
.IR outputfile .
.I outputfile
cannot be the same as 
.I sourcefile 
.RB ( lint
will not overwrite the source file).
.TP
\fB\-target=\fIarch\fR	(Sun-2, Sun-3, and Sun-4 systems only)
Define the target architecture to be
.IR arch ,
for additional portability checks specific to that architecture.
The default is the value returned by the 
.BR arch (1)
command.
.I arch
can be one of:
.BR sun2 ,
.BR sun3 ,
or
.BR sun4 .
.TP
.BI \-U name
Remove any initial definition of
.I name
for the preprocessor.
.br
.ne 8
.SH SYSTEM V OPTIONS
The sense of the
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-b ,
.BR \-h ,
and
.B \-x
options is reversed in the System V version of
.BR lint ;
the tests they control
.I are
performed unless the flag is specified.
The
.B \-C
option is not available; instead, the
.B \-c
or
.B \-o
options can be used.
The
.B \-i
option is not used; instead, the
.B \-c
option can be used.
The
.BR \-q ,
.BR \-host ,
and
.B \-target
options are not available.
.TP
.B \-c
Produce a
.B \&.ln
file for every
.B \&.c
file on the command line.
These
.B \&.ln
files are the product of
.BR lint 's
first pass only, and are not checked for compatibility between
functions.
.br
.ne 8
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-g
.TP
.B \-O
These options are accepted but ignored.
By recognizing these options,
.BR lint 's
behavior is closer to that of the
.BR cc (1V)
command.
.PD
.TP
.B \-n
Do not check compatibility against either the standard or the portable
lint library.
.TP
.B \-p
Attempt to check portability of code to other dialects of C, such as
.SM IBM
370
and Honeywell
.SM GCOS\s0.
Along with performing stricter checking,
this option truncates all non-external names
to eight characters, and all external names
to six characters and one case.
.TP
.BI \-o " library"
Create a lint library with the name
.BI llib-l lib .ln\fR.
The
.B \-c
option nullifies any use of the
.B \-o
option.
The lint library produced is the input that is given to
.BR lint 's
second pass.  The
.B \-o
option simply saves this file in the named lint library.
To produce a
.BI llib-l lib .ln
without extraneous messages, use of the
.B \-x
option is suggested.  The
.B \-v
option is useful if the source file(s) for the lint library
are just external interfaces (for example, the way the file
.B llib-lc
is written).  These option settings are also available through the
use of \*(lqlint comments\*(rq (see
.B Input Grammar
below).
.br
.ne 7
.SH USAGE
.LP
For more information about 
.B lint
refer to 
.B lint
in
.TX PUL
.LP
To create lint libraries, use the
.B \-C
option. For example
.IP
.ft B
example% lint \-Ccongress \fIfilename\fRs .\|.\|.
.ft R
.LP
where
.IR filename s
are the C sources of library
.IR congress ,
produces a file
.B llib-lcongress.ln
in the current directory
in the correct library format suitable for \*(lqlinting\*(rq
programs using
.BR \-lcongress .
.SS Input Grammar
.LP
.BR lint 's
first pass reads standard C source files.
.B lint
recognizes the following C comments as commands.
.TP
.SB /*NOTREACHED*/
At appropriate points, inhibit comments about unreachable code.
(This comment is typically placed just after calls to functions like
.BR exit (2V)).
.TP
.SM \fB/*VARARGS\fIn\|\fB*/\fR
Suppress the usual checking for variable numbers of arguments in the
following function declaration.
The data types of the first
.I n
arguments are checked; a missing
.I n
is taken to be 0.  In this version of 
.BR lint ,
.SB /*VARARGS0*/
is allowed.  It no longer indicates the absence of variable
arguments.
.TP
.SB /*ARGSUSED*/
Enable the
.B \-v
option for the next function.
.TP
.SB /*LINTLIBRARY*/
At the beginning of a file, shut off complaints about unused functions
and function arguments in this file.
This is equivalent to using the
.BR \-v " and " \-x
options.
.br
.ne 13
.SH SYSTEM V USAGE
.LP
The behavior of the
.B \-c
and the
.B \-o
options allows for incremental use of
.B lint
on a set of C source files.
Invoking
.RB ` "lint \-c" '
for each source file produces a corresponding
.B \&.ln
file, and prints all messages pertaining to that source file.
After all of the source files have been run through
.B lint
separately, it is invoked once more (without the
.B \-c
option), and with all of the
.B \&.ln
files and
.BI \-l x
options.
This produces messages about any inconsistencies between files.
This scheme works well with
.BR make (1),
since it allows
.B make
to \*(lqlint\*(rq only those source files that have been modified since
the last time
.BR lint
was run.
.LP
To create lint libraries, use the
.B \-o
option. For example
.IP
.ft B
example% lint \-x \-o congress \fIfilename\fRs .\|.\|.
.ft R
.LP
where
.IR filename s
are the C sources of library
.IR congress ,
produces a file
.B llib-lcongress.ln
in the current directory
in the correct library format suitable for \*(lqlinting\*(rq
programs using
.BR \-lcongress .
.br
.ne 5
.SH EXAMPLE
The following
.B lint
call:
.IP
.ft B
example% lint  \-b  myfile.c
.ft R
.LP
checks the consistency of the code in the C source file file
.BR myfile.c .
The 
.B \-b
option indicates that unreachable
.B break
statements are to be checked for.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/lint/lint[12]
programs
.TP
.B /usr/lib/lint/llib-l*.ln
various prebuilt lint libraries
.TP
.B /usr/lib/lint/llib-l*
sources of the prebuilt lint libraries
.PD
.LP
The following lint libraries are supplied with Sun\s-1OS\s0:
.BR \-lc ,
.BR \-lcore ,
.BR \-lcurses ,
.BR \-lkvm ,
.BR \-llwp ,
.BR \-lm ,
.BR \-lmp ,
.BR \-lpixrect ,
.BR \-lplot ,
.BR \-lsuntool ,
.BR \-lsunwindow ,
.BR \-ltermcap ,
and
.BR \-ltermlib .
Additional lint libraries may be installed separately.
.SH SYSTEM V FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/5lib/lint/lint[12]
programs
.TP
.B /usr/5lib/lint/llib-l*.ln
various prebuilt lint libraries
.TP
.B /usr/5lib/lint/llib-l*
sources of the prebuilt lint libraries
.PD
.LP
The following System V lint libraries are supplied with Sun\s-1OS\s0:
.BR \-lc ,
.BR \-lcore ,
.BR \-lcurses ,
.BR \-lkvm ,
.BR \-llwp ,
.BR \-lm ,
.BR \-lmp ,
.BR \-lpixrect ,
.BR \-lplot ,
.BR \-lport .
.BR \-lsuntool ,
and
.BR \-lsunwindow .
Additional lint libraries may be installed separately.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cc (1V),
.BR cpp (1),
.BR lex (1),
.BR make (1),
.BR yacc (1),
.BR exit (2V),
.BR setjmp (3V),
.BR ansic (7V),
.BR bsd (7V),
.BR posix (7V),
.BR sunos (7),
.BR svidii (7V),
.BR svidiii (7V),
.BR xopen (7V)
.LP
.TX PUL
.SH NOTES
Because
.B cc
does not generate or support 8-bit symbol names,
it is inappropriate to make
.B lint
8-bit clean.
See
.BR cc (1V)
for an explanation about why
.B cc
is not 8-bit clean.
.SH BUGS
There are some things you just
.I cannot
get
.B lint
to shut up about.
.LP
The routines
.BR exit (2V),
.B longjmp
(see
.BR setjmp (3V))
and other functions that do not return are not understood; this causes
various incorrect diagnostics.
.LP
Libraries created by the
.B \-C
or
.B \-o
options will, when used in later
.B lint
runs, cause certain errors that were reported when the libraries were created
to be reported again, and cause line numbers and file names from the original
source used to create those libraries to be reported in error messages.
For these reasons, it is still useful to produce stripped down lint library
source files and to use them to generate lint libraries.
