.\" @(#)ln.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH LN 1V "16 September 1989"
.SH NAME
ln \- make hard or symbolic links to files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ln
[
.B \-fs
]
.I filename
[
.I linkname
]
.br
.B ln
[
.B \-fs
]
.IR pathname .\|.\|.
.I directory
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/ln
[
.B \-fFs
]
.I filename
[
.I linkname
]
.br
.B ln
[
.B \-fFs
]
.IR pathname .\|.\|.
.I directory
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  file  "make link to"  ""  "make link to \(em \fLln\fP"
.IX  directory  "make link to"  ""  "make link to \(em \fLln\fP"
.IX  "hard link, make \(em \fLln\fP"
.IX  "symbolic link, make \(em \fLln\fP"
.IX  make "hard link to file \(em \fLln\fP"
.IX  make "symbolic link to file \(em \fLln\fP"
.LP
.B ln
creates an additional directory entry, called a
.IR link ,
to a file or directory.  Any number of links can be assigned to a
file.  The number of links does not affect other file attributes such
as size, protections, data, etc.
.LP
.I filename
is the name of the original file or directory.
.I linkname
is the new name to associate with the file or filename.  If
.I linkname
is omitted, the last component of
.I filename
is used as the name of the link.
.LP
If the last argument is the name of a directory, symbolic links
are made in that directory for each
.I pathname
argument;
.B ln
uses the last component of each
.I pathname
as the name of each link in the named
.IR directory .
.LP
A hard link (the default) is a standard directory entry just like the
one made when the file was created.  Hard links can only be made to
existing files.  Hard links cannot be made across file systems (disk
partitions, mounted file systems).  To remove a file, all hard links
to it must be removed, including the name by which it was first
created; removing the last hard link releases the inode associated
with the file.
.LP
A symbolic link, made with the
.B \-s
option, is a special directory entry that points to another named file.
Symbolic links can span file systems and point to directories.  In fact,
you can create a symbolic link that points to a file that is currently
absent from the file system; removing the file that it points to does not
affect or alter the symbolic link itself.
.LP
A symbolic link to a directory behaves differently than you might expect
in certain cases.  While an
.BR ls (1V)
on such a link displays the files in the pointed-to directory, an
.RB ` "ls \-l" '
displays information about the link itself:
.RS
.ft B
.nf
example% ln \-s dir link
example% ls link
file1 file2 file3 file4
example% ls \-l link
lrwxrwxrwx  1 user            7 Jan 11 23:27 link -> dir
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
When you
.BR cd (1)
to a directory through a symbolic link, you wind up in the pointed-to
location within the file system.  This means that the parent of the new
working directory is not the parent of the symbolic link, but rather,
the parent of the pointed-to directory.  For instance, in the following
case the final working directory is
.B /usr
and not
.BR /home/user/linktest .
.RS
.ft B
.nf
example% pwd
/home/user/linktest
example% ln \-s /usr/tmp symlink
example% cd symlink
example% cd .\|.
example% pwd
/usr
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
C shell user's can avoid any resulting navigation problems by using the
.B pushd
and
.B popd
built-in commands instead of
.BR cd .
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
The
.I System V
version of 
.B ln
behaves as described above except for the following.
If the linkname is an existing file and its mode does not forbid writing,
then its contents are destroyed.
If however its mode does not allow writing,
the mode is printed, and the user asked for a response.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
Force a hard link to a directory \(em
this option is only available to the super-user.
.TP
.B \-s
Create a symbolic link or links.
.SH SYSTEM V OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
Force files to be linked without displaying permissions, asking questions
or reporting errors.
.TP
.B \-F
Force a hard link to a directory \(em
this option is only available to the super-user.
.TP
.B \-s
Create a symbolic link or links.
.br
.ne 8
.br
.ne 8
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
The commands below illustrate the effects of the different forms of the
.B ln
command:
.sp .5
.RS
.ft B
.nf
example% ln file link 
example% ls \-F file link
file   link
example% ln \-s file symlink 
example% ls \-F file symlink
file   symlink@
example% ls \-li file link symlink
 10606 -rw-r--r--  2 user            0 Jan 12 00:06 file
 10606 -rw-r--r--  2 user            0 Jan 12 00:06 link
 10607 lrwxrwxrwx  1 user            4 Jan 12 00:06 symlink -> file
example% ln \-s nonesuch devoid
example% ls \-F devoid
devoid@
example% cat devoid
devoid: No such file or directory
example% ln \-s /proto/bin/* /tmp/bin
example% ls \-F /proto/bin /tmp/bin
/proto/bin:
x*      y*      z*

/tmp/bin:
x@      y@      z@
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cp (1),
.BR ls (1V),
.BR mv (1),
.BR rm (1),
.BR link (2V),
.BR readlink (2),
.BR stat (2V),
.BR symlink (2)
.SH BUGS
.LP
When the last argument is a directory, simple basenames should not
be used for
.I pathname
arguments.  If a basename is used, the resulting symbolic link points
to itself:
.sp .5
.RS
.ft B
.nf
example% ln \-s file /tmp
example% ls \-l /tmp/file
lrwxrwxrwx  1 user            4 Jan 12 00:16 /tmp/file -> file
example% cat /tmp/file
/tmp/file: Too many levels of symbolic links
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.br
.ne 6
.LP
To avoid this problem, use full pathnames, or prepend a
reference to the
.SB PWD
variable to files in the working directory:
.sp .5
.RS
.ft B
.nf
example% rm /tmp/file
example% ln \-s $\s-1PWD\s0/file /tmp
lrwxrwxrwx  1 user            4 Jan 12 00:16 /tmp/file -> /home/user/subdir/file
.fi
.ft R
.RE
