.\" @(#)loadkeys.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH LOADKEYS 1 "1 September 1988"
.SH NAME
loadkeys, dumpkeys \- load and dump keyboard translation tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B loadkeys
[
.B \-e
]
[
.I filename
]
.LP
.B dumpkeys
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS loadkeys
.IX "loadkeys command" "" "\fLloadkeys\fR command"  
.LP
.B loadkeys
reads the file specified by
.IR filename ,
and modifies the keyboard streams module's translation tables.
If no file is specified, and the keyboard is a Type-4 keyboard,
a default file for the layout indicated by the
.SM DIP
switches on the keyboard.
The file is in the format specified by
.BR keytables (5).
.LP
If the layout code in the
.SM DIP
switches on the keyboard has the hexadecimal value
.BI 0x dd\fR,
the file loaded by
.B loadkeys
by default is
.BI /usr/share/lib/keytables/layout_ dd\fR.
These files specify only the entries that change
between the different Type-4 keyboard layouts.
.SS dumpkeys
.IX "dumpkeys command" "" "\fLdumpkeys\fR command"  
.LP
.B dumpkeys
writes, to the standard output, 
the current contents of the keyboard streams
module's translation tables,
in the format specified by
.BR keytables (5).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e
.B loadkeys
loads the requested keytable layout information into the
.SM EEPROM
keytables.
This allows the console monitor to select the correct
key-values when a non-US keyboard is connected to the workstation. 
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BI /usr/share/lib/keytables/layout_ dd
default keytable files
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR kb (4M),
.BR keytables (5)
.SH BUGS
.LP
The 
.B \-e
option requires
.SM EEPROM
rev 2.6 or later. 
