.\" @(#)load.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH LOAD 1 "19 February 1988"
.SH NAME
load, loadc \- load Application SunOS or Developer's Toolkit clusters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B load
[ 
.IR filename " .\|.\|.]" 
.LP
.B loadc
[
.I cluster
\&.\|.\|. ]
.LP
.B loadc appl
.LP
.B loadc devel
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "load command" "" "\fLload\fR command"  
.IX "loadc command" "" "\fLloadc\fR command"  
.LP
.B load
loads the optional clusters in the Application SunOS or the Developer's
Toolkit that contain the files specified in the
.I filename
arguments.
.B loadc
loads the optional clusters in the Application SunOS or
the Developers Toolkit specified in the cluster arguments.
Specify the special cluster name
.B appl
with 
.B loadc
to load all the Application SunOS clusters.  Likewise, specify
.B devel
to
.B loadc
to load all the Developer's Toolkit clusters.
.LP
.B load
and 
.B loadc
require the user to specify the distribution medium, either
3.5-inch diskette or quarter-inch tape, and insert the diskette or tape.
The user will be asked to confirm that the specified
medium has been inserted.  If the user confirmation
is negative, no software will be loaded.
.LP
Without arguments,
.B load
and 
.B loadc
display a summary of the clusters in the Application SunOS and
Developer's Toolkit, including the load state and size of each cluster.
.SH EXAMPLES
To load the cluster that contains the 
.BR spell (1)
command:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
example% load spell
Enter your distribution media type (1=1/4" tape, 2=3.5" diskette): 2
Insert diskette \fIn\fP to load the spellcheck cluster, confirm (y/n): y
Loading the spellcheck cluster ...
The spellcheck cluster has been loaded.
space used by clusters: 6021K bytes
total space remaining: 20432K bytes
example%
.ft
.fi
.RE
.LP
To load the 
.B spellcheck 
cluster:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
example% loadc spellcheck
Enter your distribution media type (1=1/4" tape, 2=3.5" diskette): 2
Insert diskette \fIn\fP to load the spellcheck, confirm (y/n): y
Loading the spellcheck cluster .\|.\|.
The spellcheck cluster has been loaded.
space used by clusters: 6021K bytes
total space remaining: 20432K bytes
example%
.ft
.fi
.RE
.LP
To display a summary of the clusters in the Application
SunOS and Developer's Toolkit:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ta \w'    available   'u +\w'advanced_admin   'u +\w'diskette  'u
.ft B
example% load
\&Application SunOS Optional Clusters:
\&    available	cluster	size (bytes)
\&    ---------	-------	----
\&      yes	accounting	265K
\&      no	advanced_admin	501K
\&      \&.\|.\|.
.br
.ne 10
\&Developer's Toolkit Optional Clusters:
\&    available	cluster	size (bytes)
\&    ---------	-------	----
\&      no	base_devel	6907K
\&      \&.\|.\|.
.sp
space used by clusters: 6021K bytes
total space remaining: 20432K bytes
example%
.ft
.fi
.RE
.LP
A cluster is available if it has been \(lqloaded\(rq using
.B load
or
.B loadc
or if it has been \*(lqmounted\*(rq across the network.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 15
.SB LOADMEDIA
Used to specify the distribution media type for the system.  It can be set
to
.B diskette
to specify 3.5-inch diskette or
.B tape
to specify 1/4" tape.
If it is set,
.B load
and
.B loadc
will not ask the user to enter the distribution media type.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/cluster/appl
where Application SunOS clusters are loaded (or mounted)
.TP
.B /usr/cluster/devel
where Developer's Toolkit clusters are loaded (or mounted)
.TP
.B /usr/lib/load/*
data files
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cluster(1),
.BR unload (1),
.BR toc (5)
.LP
.I Sun386i System Setup and Maintenance
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B "Wrong \fIdiskette\fP/\fItape\fP
An incorrect diskette or tape was inserted.  The user will again
be asked to insert the specified media.
.TP
.BI "The file " filename " is not in any of the optional software clusters."
The specified file is not part of the Application
SunOS or Developer's Toolkit.
.TP
.BI "There is no " cluster " cluster."
The specified cluster is not part of the Application
SunOS or Developers Toolkit.
.TP
.BI "The cluster " cluster " is already loaded, overwrite? (y/n):"
The specified cluster appears to have been loaded already.
Type 
.B y
followed by
.SM RETURN
to have the cluster loaded or
.B n
followed by
.SM RETURN
to cancel the loading of the cluster.
.TP
.BI "Cluster " cluster " requires " n "K; there is not enough disk space."
There is not enough disk space to hold the specified cluster.
.TP
.BI "The " cluster " cluster has not been loaded."
The loading of the specified cluster has been canceled or interrupted by
the user.
.TP
.B "The Application SunOS (and/or) Developers Toolkit are mounted."
The Application SunOS or Developers Toolkit or both
are mounted across the network
and can not be loaded or unloaded.
.TP
.BI "The " tape / diskette " drive is currently in use."
You are trying to load a cluster from tape (or diskette) 
and another process currently
has control of the tape (or diskette) drive.
