.\" @(#)lockscreen.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH LOCKSCREEN 1 "7 October 1990"
.SH NAME
lockscreen, lockscreen_default \- maintain SunView context and prevent casual access
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lockscreen
[
.B \-enr
]
[
.B \-b
.I program
]
[
.B \-t
.I seconds
]
.if n .ti +.5n
[
.I gfx-program
[
.I gfx-program-arguments
] ]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.TX SVBG 
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information about installing optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "lockscreen command"  ""  "\fLlockscreen\fP \(em save window context"
.IX  "window, save context \(em \fLlockscreen\fP"
.IX  login  "save window context"  ""  "save window context \(em \fLlockscreen\fP"
.LP
.B lockscreen
is a SunView utility that locks the screen against casual access
while preserving the state of the SunView display.
It clears the workstation screen to black, and then runs
.IR gfx-program ,
which typically provides a moving graphics display to reduce phosphor
burn.
When no
.I gfx-program
is provided, a suitable default program is run.
.LP
.B lockscreen
requires the user's password before restoring the window context.
When any keyboard or mouse button is pressed, the graphics screen
is replaced by a password screen that displays the user name, a small
box with a bouncing logo, and a prompt for the user's password.  If
the user has no password, or if the
.B \-n
option is used, the window context is simply restored.
.LP
When the password screen appears:
.RS
.TP 4
\(bu
Restore the window context by entering the user's password followed by a
.SM RETURN
(this password is not echoed on the screen) or,
.TP
\(bu
Point to the black box and click the left button to return to
the graphics display.
.RE
.LP
If neither of the above actions is taken,
.I gfx_program
resumes execution after the interval specified with the
.B \-t
option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e
Add the
.B Exit Desktop
choice to the password screen.
If pointed to and clicked, the SunView
environment is exited and the current user is logged out.
This option is unreliable and can be a security hole,
its use is strongly discouraged.
See
.SM BUGS\s0.
.TP
.B \-n
Require no password to reenter the window environment.
.TP
.B \-r
Allow the use of the user name
.B root
in the
.RB ` Name: '
field of the password screen.  Normally,
.B root
is not accepted as a valid user name.
.TP
.BI \-b " program"
Allow an additional program to be run as a child process of
.BR lockscreen .
This background process could be a compile server or some other useful program
that the user wants run while lockscreen is running.  No arguments are
passed to this program.
.TP
.BI \-t " seconds"
After
.I seconds
seconds, clear the password screen and restart
.IR gfx-program .
The default is 5 minutes (300 seconds).
.TP
.RI [ \ gfx-program "\ ] [ " gfx-program-arguments \ ]
Run this program after clearing the screen to black.
When no
.I program
argument is present,
.B lockscreen
tries to run
.B lockscreen_default
if it is in the standard search
path; otherwise, a bouncing Sun logo appears.
When
.I gfx-program-arguments
are specified and the
.I gfx-program
is not, the arguments are passed to
.BR lockscreen_default .
.B lockscreen_default
is typically a non-interactive graphics program
(see
.BR graphics_demos (6)).
.B lockscreen
does not search for
.B lockscreen_default
when the
.I gfx-program
is specified explicitly as an empty argument (an adjacent pair
of quote-marks).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/bin/lockscreen_default
Default
.IR gfx-program .
This displays a series of
.BR life (6)
patterns.
If a file named
.B lockscreen_default
appears earlier in the search path, that file is used instead.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR login (1),
.BR sunview (1)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B lockscreen 
is more secure when
.I gfx-program
are not specified and when
.B lockscreen_default
is not in the search path.
To improve security, enter the following command
as root, or start
.B lockscreen
with an empty argument (see
.SM OPTIONS\s0,
above).
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
example# mv\ \ /usr/bin/lockscreen_default\ \ /usr/bin/lockscreen_default-
.fi
.RE
.LP
The
.B \-e
option does not consistently log the current user out by clicking on the
.B Exit Desktop
button.
Occassionally, users will be returned to the shell or
the Desktop
.IR "without requiring a password" .
This option is unreliable, and its use could allow unsecure access to
the system.
