.\" @(#)logger.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH LOGGER 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
logger \- add entries to the system log
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B logger
[
.B \-t
.I tag
] [
.B \-p
.I priority
] [
.B \-i
] [
.B \-f
.I filename
] [
.I message
] .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "logger command"  ""  "\fLlogger\fP \(em make system log entry"
.IX  make "system log entry \(em \fLlogger\fP"
.IX  create "system log entry \(em \fLlogger\fP"
.B logger
provides a method for adding one-line entries to the system log file
from the command line.  One or more
.I message
arguments can be given on the command line, in which case each is
logged immediately.  Otherwise, a
.I filename
can be specified, in which case each line in the file
is logged.  If neither is specified,
.B logger
reads and logs messages on a line-by-line basis from the standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12n
.BI \-t \ tag
Mark each line added to the log with the specified
.IR tag .
.TP
.BI \-p \ priority
Enter the message with the specified
.IR priority .
The message priority can be specified numerically, or as a
.IB facility . level
pair.  For example,
.RB ` "\-p local3.info" '
assigns the message priority to the
.B info
level in the
.B local3
facility.  The default priority is
.BR user.notice .
.TP
.B \-i
Log the process
.SM ID
of the
.B logger
process with each line.
.TP
.BI \-f \ filename
Use the contents of
.I filename
as the message to log.
.TP
.I message
If this is unspecified, either the file
indicated with
.B \-f
or the standard input is added to the log.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.ft B
logger System rebooted
.ft R
.RE
.LP
will log the message
.RB ` "System rebooted" '
to the facility at priority
.B notice
to be treated by
.B syslogd
as other messages to the facility
.B notice
are.
.IP
.B
logger \-p local0.notice \-t \s-1HOSTIDM\s0 \-f /dev/idmc
.LP
will read from the file
.B /dev/idmc
and will log each line in that file as a message with the tag
.RB ` \s-1HOSTIDM\s0 '
at priority
.B notice
to be treated by
.B syslogd
as other messages to the facility
.B local0
are.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR syslog (3),
.BR syslogd (8)
