.\" @(#)login.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH LOGIN 1 "12 June 1988"
.SH NAME
login \- log in to the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B login
[
.B \-p
] [
.I username
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  login  "to local machine \(em \fLlogin\fR"
.IX  "sign on"  ""  "\fLlogin\fP \(em sign on"
.LP
.B login
signs
.I username
on to the system initially;
.B login
may also be used at any time to change from one user
.SM ID
to another.
.LP
When used with no argument,
.B login
requests a user name and password (if appropriate).
Echoing is turned off (if possible) while typing the password.
Note: the number of significant characters in a password is 8.
See
.BR passwd (1).
.LP
If password aging is enabled and the password corresponding to the user
name has expired, the user will be prompted for a new password.
The user has to successfully modify his password for login to proceed. 
See
.BR passwd (1).
.LP
When successful,
.B login
updates accounting files, prints disk usage and limits (by running
.BR quota (1),)
prints the message of the day, informs you
of the existence of any mail, and displays
the time you last logged in.
None of these messages is printed if there is a
.B \&.hushlogin
file in your home directory.
This is mostly used to make life easier for nonhuman users, such as
.BR uucp (1C).
.LP
.B login
initializes the user and group
\s-1ID\s0s
and the working directory,
then starts a command interpreter shell (usually either
.BR sh (1)
or
.BR csh (1))
according to specifications found in the file
.BR /etc/passwd .
Argument 0 of the command interpreter is
the name of the command interpreter with
a leading dash
.RB (` \- ')
prepended.
.LP
.B login
also modifies the environment
.RB  ( environ (5V))
with information specifying home directory, command interpreter,
terminal-type (if available) and username.
The
.B \-p
argument preserves the remainder of the environment,
otherwise any previous environment is discarded.
.LP
The super-user
.B root
may only log in on those terminals marked as
\*(lqsecure\*(rq in the
.B /etc/ttytab
file.  Otherwise, the super-user must log in as an ordinary user and become
super-user using
.BR su (1v).
For example, if the file contained:
.sp .5
.RS
.ft B
.nf
console	"/etc/getty Console-9600"	sun	on secure
tty00	"/etc/getty Console-9600"	sun	on
\&.\|.\|.
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
the super-user could only log in directly on the console.  See
.BR ttytab (5)
for a discussion of \(lqsecure\(rq and other
.BR getty (8)
options used in
.BR /etc/ttytab .
.LP
If the file
.B /etc/nologin
exists,
.B login
prints its contents on the user's terminal and exits. This is used by
.BR shutdown (8)
to stop logins when the system is about to go down.
.LP
The
.B login
command, recognized by
.BR sh (1)
and
.BR csh (1),
is executed directly (without forking), and terminates that shell.
To resume working, you must log in again.
.LP
.B login
times out and exits if its prompt for input is not answered within a
reasonable time.
.LP
When the Bourne shell
.RB ( sh )
starts up, it reads a file called
.B .profile
from your home directory (that of the username you use to log in).
When the C shell
.RB ( csh )
starts up, it reads a file called
.B \&.cshrc
from your home directory, and then reads a file called
.BR \&.login .
.LP
The shells read these files only if they are owned by the
person logging in.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p
Preserve any existing environment variables and their values;
otherwise the previous environment is discarded.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/utmp	
accounting
.TP
.B /var/adm/wtmp	
accounting
.TP
.B /var/adm/lastlog
time of last login
.TP
.B /etc/ttytab
terminal types
.TP
.B /usr/ucb/quota
quota check
.TP
.B /var/spool/mail/*
mail
.TP
.B /etc/motd
message-of-the-day
.TP
.B /etc/passwd
password file
.TP
.B /etc/nologin
stop login, print message
.TP
.B ~/.hushlogin
makes login quieter
.TP
.B \&.login
.TP
.B \&.profile
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR csh (1),
.BR mail (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR quota (1),
.BR rlogin (1C),
.BR sh (1),
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR environ (5V),
.BR fbtab (5),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR svdtab (5),
.BR utmp (5V),
.BR getty (8),
.BR init (8),
.BR shutdown (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 20
.B Login incorrect
If the name or the password is bad (or mistyped).
.TP
.B No Shell
.TP
.B cannot open password file
.TP
.B no directory
Ask your system administrator for assistance.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The following options are undocumented, and not intended
for the user.
The 
.B \-r
option is used by the remote login server,
.BR rlogind (8C)
to force
.B login 
to enter into an initial connection protocol.
.B \-h
is used by
.BR telnetd (8C)
and other servers to list the host from which the connection was
received.
.br
.ne 10v
.LP
The following warnings apply when 
.B login
account names contain characters outside
the range of 7-bit
.SM ASCII\s0:
.TP 3
\(bu
A user cannot 
.B rlogin
to 
.I account-name
containing 8-bit characters from a system
that does not handle 8-bit characters.
.TP 3
\(bu
A user cannot log in to
.I account-name
containing 8-bit characters
from a 7-bit 
.SM ASCII
terminal (through a modem, for example).
.TP 3
\(bu
Several parts of the C library are not tested for
8-bit user names.
.TP 3
\(bu
Codeset mapping can vary between systems,
so an 8-bit pattern can represent
different characters on different sytems.
.TP 3
\(bu
Password algorithms do not work with 8-bit characters in
the password.
