.\" @(#)lookbib.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH LOOKBIB 1 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
lookbib \- find references in a bibliographic database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lookbib
.I database
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I Text
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  lookbib  ""  "\fLlookbib\fP \(em find bibliographic references"
.IX  "document production"  "lookbib"  ""  "\fLlookbib\fP \(em find bibliographic references"
.IX  "bibliography"  "lookbib"  ""  "\fLlookbib\fP \(em find bibliographic references"
.LP
A bibliographic reference is a set of lines, constituting fields of
bibliographic information.  Each field starts on a line beginning with
a
.RB ` % ',
followed by a key-letter, then a blank, and finally the
contents of the field, which may continue
until the next line starting with
.RB ` % '.
.LP
.B lookbib
uses an inverted index made by
.B indxbib
to find sets of bibliographic references.  It reads keywords typed
after the
.RB ` > '
prompt on the terminal, and retrieves records
containing all these keywords.
If nothing matches, nothing is returned
except another
.RB ` > '
prompt.
.LP
It is possible to search multiple databases, as long as they have a
common index made by
.BR indxbib (1).
In that case, only the first argument given to
.B indxbib
is specified to
.B lookbib.
.LP
If
.B lookbib
does not find the index files (the
.B .i[abc]
files), it looks for a
reference file with the same name as the argument, without the
suffixes.  It creates a file with a
.B .ig
suffix, suitable for use with
.B fgrep 
(see
.BR grep (1V)).
.B lookbib
then uses this
.B fgrep
file to find references.  This method is
simpler to use, but the
.B .ig
file is slower to use than the
.B .i[abc]
files, and does not allow the use of multiple reference files.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.IB x .ia
.TP
.IB x .ib
.TP
.IB x .ic
index files
.TP
.IR x .ig
reference file
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR addbib (1),
.BR grep (1V),
.BR indxbib (1),
.BR refer (1),
.BR roffbib (1),
.BR sortbib (1)
.LP
.TX DOCS
.SH BUGS
Probably all dates should be indexed,
since many disciplines refer to literature
written in the 1800s or earlier.
