.\" @(#)lp.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from SVID
.TH LP 1 "21 June 1988" 
.SH NAME
lp, cancel \- send/cancel requests to a printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lp
[
.B \-cmsw
]
[
.BI \-d dest
]
[
.BI \-n number
]
[
.BI \-o option
]
[
.BI \-t title
]
.IR filename .\|.\|.
.LP
.B cancel
[
.I ids
] [
.I printers
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "lp send requests to a printer" "" "\fLlp\fP\(emsend requests to a printer" ""
.IX "cancel requests to a printer" "" "\fLcancel\fP\(emcancel requests to a printer"
.IX "printer" "send requests to"
.IX "printer" "cancel requests to"
.IX "remove" "print jobs from printer queue"
.IX "send" "print jobs to printer"
.LP
.B lp
arranges for the named files and associated information
(collectively called a
.IR request )
to be printed by a line printer.
If no file names are mentioned,
the standard input is assumed.
The file name
.RB ` \- '
stands for the standard input
and may be supplied on the command line
in conjunction with named
.IR filenames .
The order in which
.I filenames
appear is the same order in which they will be printed.
.LP
.B lp
associates a unique
.I id
with each request and prints it on the standard output.
This
.I id
can be used later to cancel (see
.BR cancel )
or find the status (see
.BR lpstat (1))
of the request.
.LP
.B cancel
cancels line printer requests.
The command line arguments may be either request
.I ids
(as returned by
.BR lp (1))
or
.I printer
names.
When
.I ids
are specified,
.B cancel
removes the jobs corresponding to the
.I ids
on the destination printer.
See the
.B \-d
option for details on how the default destination
printer is obtained.
For a complete list of printers, use
.BR lpstat (1).
Specifying a request
.I id
cancels the associated request
even if it is currently printing.
Specifying a
.I printer
cancels the request which is currently printing
on that printer.
In either case, the cancellation of a request
that is currently printing frees the printer
to print its next available request.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options to
.B lp
may appear in any order and may be intermixed
with file names:
.TP 10
.B \-c
Make copies of the
.I filenames
to be printed immediately when
.B lp
is invoked.
Otherwise,
.I filenames
will not be copied, but will be linked whenever possible.
If the
.B \-c
option is not given, then the user
should be careful not to remove any of the
.I filenames
before the request has been printed in its entirety.
It should also be noted that in the absence of the
.B \-c
option, any changes made to the named
.I filenames
after the request is made but before it is printed
will be reflected in the printed output.
.TP
.B \-m
Send mail
(see
.BR mail(1))
after the files have been printed.
By default, no mail is sent upon normal completion
of the print request.
.TP
.B \-s
Suppress messages from
.IR lp (1)
such as
.RB ` "request id is .\|.\|." '.
.TP
.B \-w
Write a message on the user's terminal after the
.I filenames
have been printed.
If the user is not logged in locally,
then mail will be sent instead.
.TP
.BI \-d dest
Choose
.I dest
as the printer that is to do the printing.
By default,
.I dest
is taken from the environment variable
.SB LPDEST
(if it is set).
Otherwise, 
.I dest
will be taken from the environment variable 
.BR \s-1PRINTER\s0 .
If
.SB PRINTER
is not defined either, then the default destination
for the computer system is used.
Destination names vary between systems (see
.BR lpstat (1)).
.TP
.BI \-n number
Print
.I number
copies (default of 1) of the output.
.TP
.BI \-o option
Specify printer-dependent 
.IR options .
Several such options may be collected by specifying the
.B \-o
option more than once.
.TP
.BI \-t title
Print
.I title
on the banner page of the output.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/termcap
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lpstat (1),
.BR lpr (1),
.BR lprm (1),
.BR mail (1),
.BR lpc (8),
.BR lpd (8)
