.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)lpr.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD 6.1
.\"
.TH LPR 1 "28 August 1989"
.SH NAME
lpr \- send a job to the printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpr
[
.BI \-P printer
]
[
.BI \-# copies
]
[
.BI \-C class
]
[
.BI \-J job
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.BI \-T title
]
[
.B \-i
[
.I indent
] ] [
.BI \-1234 font
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.BI \-w cols
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.B \-r
] [
.B \-m
] [
.B \-h
] [
.B \-s
] [
.BI \- filter-option
]
.if n .ti +5n
[
.I filename
\&.\|.\|.
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "lpr command"  ""  "\fLlpr\fP \(em print files"
.IX  "print files" "" "print files \(em \fLlpr\fP"
.IX  file  print  ""  "print \(em \fLlpr\fP"
.LP
.B lpr
creates a printer job in a spooling area for subsequent printing as
facilities become available.
Each printer job consists of a control file and one or more 
data files.  The data files are
copies of
(or, with
.B \-s ,
symbolic links to) each
.I filename
you specify.
The spool area is managed by the line printer daemon,
.BR lpd (8).
Jobs that specify a printer on a remote machine are
forwarded by
.BR lpd .
.LP
.B lpr
reads from the standard input if no files are specified.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP 15
.BI \-P printer
Send output to the named
.IR printer .
Otherwise send output to the printer named in the
.SB PRINTER
environment variable, or to the default printer,
.BR lp .
.TP
.BI \-# copies
Produce the number of
.I copies
indicated for each named file.  For example:
.RS
.IP
.B "example% lpr \-#3 index.c lookup.c"
.RE
.IP
produces three copies of
.BR index.c ,
followed by three copies of
.BR lookup.c .
On the other hand,
.RS
.IP
.B "example% cat index.c lookup.c | lpr \-#3"
.RE
.IP
generates three copies of the concatenation of the files.
.TP
.BI \-C class
Print
.I class
as the job classification on the
burst page.
For example,
.RS
.IP
.B example% lpr \-C Operations new.index.c
.RE
.IP
replaces the system name (the name returned by
.IR hostname )
with \*(lqOperations\*(rq on the burst page, and prints the file
.IR new.index.c .
.TP
.BI \-J job
Print
.I job
as the job name on the
burst page.  Normally,
.B lpr
uses the first file's name.
.TP
.BI \-T title
Use
.I title
instead of the file name for the title
used by
.BR pr (1V).
.TP
\fB\-i\fR[ \fIindent\fR ]
Indent output
.I indent
.SM SPACE
characters.  Eight
.SM SPACE
characters is the default.
The indent is passed to the input filter.
If no input filter is present, this option
is ignored.
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-1 " font "
.TP
.BI \-2 " font "
.TP
.BI \-3 " font "
.TP
.BI \-4 " font "
Mount the specified
.I font
on font position
.BR 1 ,
.BR 2 ,
.B 3
or
.BR 4 .
The daemon will construct a
.I .railmag
file in the spool directory that
indicates the mount by referencing
.BR /usr/lib/vfont/font .
.PD
.TP
.BI \-w cols
Use
.I cols
as the page width for
.BR pr .
.TP
.B \-r
Remove the file upon completion of spooling,
or upon completion of printing with the
.B \-s
option.
.TP
.B \-m
Send mail upon completion.
.TP
.B \-h
Suppress printing the burst page.
.TP
.B \-s
Create a symbolic link from the spool
area to the data files rather than trying to copy
them (so large files can be printed).
This means the data files should
not be modified or removed until they
have been printed.
This option can be used to avoid truncating
files larger than the maximum given in the
.B mx
capability of the
.BR printcap (5)
entry.
.B \-s
only prevents copies of local files from being made. 
Jobs from
remote hosts are copied anyway.
.B \-s
only works with named data files; if the
.B lpr
command is at the end of a pipeline, the data is copied to the
spool.
.br
.ne 10
.TP
.I filter-option
The following single letter options notify the line printer
spooler that the files are not standard text files.
The spooling daemon will use the appropriate filters to
print the data accordingly.
.ne 12
.RS
.TP
.B \-p
.PD 0
Use
.B pr
to format the files
.RB ( "lpr \-p"
is very much like
.RB ` "pr | lpr" ').
.TP
.B \-l
Print control characters and suppress page breaks.
.TP
.B \-t
The files contain
.BR troff (1)
(cat phototypesetter) binary data.
.TP
.B \-n
The files contain data from
.B ditroff
(device independent troff).
.TP
.B \-d
The files contain data from
.B tex
(\s-1DVI\s0
format from Stanford).
.TP
.B \-g
The files contain standard plot data as produced by the
.BR plot (3X)
routines (see also
.BR plot (1G)
for the filters used by the printer spooler).
.TP
.B \-v
The files contain a raster image, see
.BR rasterfile (5).
The printer must support an appropriate imaging model such as
PostScript in order to print the image.
.TP
.B \-c
The files contain data produced by
.BR cifplot .
.TP
.B \-f
Interpret the first character of each line as a standard
.SM FORTRAN
carriage control character.
.PD
.LP
If no
.I filter-option
is given (and the printer can interpret PostScript), the string
.RB ` %! '
as the first two characters of a file indicates that it
contains PostScript commands.
.LP
These filter options offer a standard user interface,
and all options may not be available for, nor applicable to,
all printers.
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/passwd
personal identification
.TP
.B /etc/printcap
printer capabilities data base
.TP
.B /usr/lib/lpd
line printer daemon
.TP
.B /var/spool/l*
directories used for spooling
.TP
.B /var/spool/l*/cf*
daemon control files
.TP
.B /var/spool/l*/df*
data files specified in
.RB ` cf '
files
.TP
.B /var/spool/l*/tf*
temporary copies of
.RB ` cf '
files
.TP
.B /usr/lib/vfont/font
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lpq (1),
.BR lprm (1),
.BR plot (1G),
.BR pr (1V),
.BR screendump (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR plot (3X),
.BR printcap (5),
.BR rasterfile (5),
.BR lpc (8),
.BR lpd (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B lpr: copy file is too large
A file is determined to be too \*(lqlarge\*(rq
to print by copying into the spool area.
.BR lpr
truncates the file, and prints as much of it as it can.
The maximum file length is specified by the
.B mx
capability of the
.BR printcap (5)
entry for the printer.  If no
.B mx
capability is specified, the default limit is 1000 Kbytes.
Use the
.B \-s
option as defined above to make a symbolic
link to the file instead of copying
it. 
.TP
.B lpr: \fIprinter\fP\|: unknown printer
The
.B printer
was not found in the
.B printcap
database.  Usually this is a typing mistake; however, it may indicate
a missing or incorrect entry in the
.B /etc/printcap
file.
.TP
.B "lpr: \fIprinter\fP\|: jobs queued, but cannot start daemon."
The connection to
.B lpd
on the local machine failed.
This usually means the printer server started at
boot time has died or is hung.  Check the local socket
.B /dev/printer
to be sure it still exists (if it does
not
exist,
there is no
.B lpd
process running).
.br
.ne 9
.TP
.B lpr: \fIprinter\fP\|: printer queue is disabled
This means the queue was turned off with
.RS
.IP
.BI "example% /usr/etc/lpc disable " printer
.RE
.IP
to prevent
.B lpr
from putting files in the queue.  This is normally
done by the system manager when a printer is
going to be down for a long time.  The
printer can be turned back on by a super-user with
.BR lpc .
.IP
If a connection to
.B lpd
on the local machine cannot be made
.B lpr
will say that the daemon cannot be started.
Diagnostics may be printed in the daemon log file
regarding missing spool files by
.BR lpd .
.SH BUGS
.LP
Command-line options cannot be combined into a single argument
as with some other commands.  The command:
.IP
.B lpr \-fs
.LP
is not equivalent to
.IP
.BR "lpr \-f \-s"
.LP
Placing the
.B \-s
flag first, or writing each option as a separate argument, makes a link
as expected.
.LP
.B lpr \-p
is not precisely
equivalent
to
.BR "pr | lpr" .
.B lpr \-p
puts the current date at the top of each page, rather
than the date last modified.
.LP
Fonts for
.BR troff (1)
and
\s-1T\s-1\dE\u\s+1X\s+1\(rg
reside on the printer host.
It is currently not possible to use local font libraries.
.LP
.B lpr
refuses to print a.out files and library archives.
.LP
The
.B \-s
option only avoids copying the data file to the spool directory
of the local machine.  If the printer for a job resides on a
remote machine, the data file will be copied to the remote spool
directory in all cases.
