.\" @(#)lprm.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD 6.1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH LPRM 1 "7 September 1988"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
lprm \- remove jobs from the printer queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lprm
[
.BI \-P printer
] [
.B \-
] [
\fIjob #\fR .\|.\|.
] [
.I username
\&.\|.\|.
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "lprm command"  ""  "\fLlprm\fP \(em remove print jobs"
.IX  remove "print jobs \(em \fLlprm\fP"
.IX  delete "print jobs \(em \fLlprm\fP"
.IX  printer  "remove jobs from queue"  ""  "remove jobs from queue \(em \fLlprm\fP"
.IX  queue  "remove jobs from printer"  ""  "remove jobs from printer \(em \fLlprm\fP"
.B lprm
removes a job or jobs from a printer's spooling queue.
Since the spool directory is protected from users, using
.B lprm
is normally the only method by which a user can remove a job.
.LP
Without any arguments,
.BR lprm
deletes the job that is currently active, provided that the user who
invoked
.BR lprm
owns that job.
.LP
When the super-user specifies a
.IR username ,
.B lprm
removes all jobs belonging to that user.
.LP
You can remove a specific job by supplying its job number as an
argument, which you can obtain using
.BR lpq (1).
For example:
.LP
.nf
.RS
.ta\w'active'u+2n +\w'wendy'u+2n +\w'385'u+2n +\w'standard input'u+16n
.B example% lpq  \-Phost
.B host is ready and printing
.B Rank	Owner	Job	Files	Total Size
.B active	wendy	385	standard input	35501 bytes
.B example% lprm \-Phost 385
.in -0.5i
.fi
.RE
.LP
.B lprm
reports the names of any files it removes, and is
silent if there are no applicable jobs to remove.
.LP
.B lprm
kills the active printer daemon, if necessary, before removing
spooled jobs; it restarts the daemon when through.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.BI \-P printer
Specify the queue associated with a specific
printer.  Otherwise the value of the
.SB PRINTER
variable in the environment is used.  If this variable is unset,
the queue for the default printer is used.
.TP
.B \-
Remove all jobs owned by you.  If invoked by the super-user, all
jobs in the spool are removed.  (Job ownership is determined by the
user's login name and host name on the machine where the
.B lpr
command was invoked).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/printcap
printer characteristics file
.TP
.B /var/spool/*
spooling directories
.TP
.B /var/spool/l*/lock
lock file used to obtain the pid of the current
daemon and the job number of the currently active job
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lpr (1),
.BR lpq (1),
.BR lpd (8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B lprm: \fIprinter\fP\|: cannot restart printer daemon
The connection to
.B lpd
on the local machine failed.
This usually means the printer server started at
boot time has died or is hung.  If it is hung, the master
.BR lpd (8)
daemon may have to be killed and a new one started.
.SH BUGS
Since race conditions are possible when updating the lock file,
an active job may be incorrectly identified for removal by an
.B lprm
command issued with no arguments.  During the interval between an
.BR lpq (1)
command and the execution of
.BR lprm ,
the next job in line may have become active; that job
may be removed unintentionally if it is owned by you.
To avoid this, supply
.B lprm
with the job number to remove when a critical job that
you own is next in line.
.LP
Only the super-user can remove print jobs submitted from another host.
