.\" @(#)machid.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 and S5R3
.TH MACHID 1 "18 February 1988"
.SH NAME
machid, sun, iAPX286, m68k, pdp11, sparc, u3b, u3b2, u3b5, u3b15, vax, i386 \- return a true exit status if the processor is of the indicated type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sun
.LP
.B iAPX286
.PP
.B m68k
.PP
.B pdp11
.PP
.B sparc
.PP
.B u3b
.PP
.B u3b2
.PP
.B u3b5
.PP
.B u3b15
.PP
.B vax
.\" Sun386i only from here
.PP
.B i386
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX iAPX286 "" "\fLiAPX286\fR \(em machine type indication"
.IX i386 "" "\fLi386\fR \(em machine type indication"
.IX m68k "" "\fLm68k\fR \(em machine type truth value"
.IX pdp11 "" "\fLpdp11\fR \(em machine type truth value"
.IX sun "" "\fLsun\fR \(em machine type truth value"
.IX sparc "" "\fLsparc\fR \(em machine type truth value"
.IX u3b "" "\fLu3b\fR \(em machine type truth value"
.IX u3b2 "" "\fLu3b2\fR \(em machine type truth value"
.IX u3b5 "" "\fLu3b5\fR \(em machine type truth value"
.IX u3b15 "" "\fLu3b15\fR \(em machine type truth value"
.IX vax "" "\fLvax\fR \(em machine type truth value"
.LP
The following commands will return a true value (exit code of 0) 
if you are on a processor that the command name indicates.
.RS
.TP 10
.B sun
True if you are on a Sun system.
.TP
.B i\s-1APX\s0286
True if you are on a computer using an i\s-1APX\s0286
processor.
.TP
.B i386
True if you are on a computer using an i\s-1APX\s0386
processor.
.TP
.B m68k
True if you are on a computer, such as a Sun-3 or a Sun-3x,
using an M68000-family processor.
.TP
.B pdp11
True if you are on a
.SM PDP\s0-11.
.TP
.B sparc
True if you are on a computer, such as a Sun-4, using a
.SM SPARC\s0-family
processor.
.TP
.B u3b
True if you are on a 3B20S computer.
.TP
.B u3b2
True if you are on a 3B2 computer.
.TP
.B u3b5
True if you are on a 3B5 computer.
.TP
.B u3b15
True if you are on a 3B15 computer.
.TP
.B vax
True if you are on a
.SM VAX\s0.
.dt
.RE
.LP
The commands that do not apply will return a false
(non-zero) value.
These commands are often used within
.BR make (1)
makefiles and shell procedures to increase portability.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR arch (1),
.BR mach (1),
.BR make (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR test (1V),
.BR true (1)
