.\" @(#)mail.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2 and S5
.ds ~ \u\(ap\d
.TH MAIL 1 "19 December 1988"
.SH NAME
mail, Mail \- read or send mail messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Mail
.RB [ " \-deHinNUv " ]
.RB [ " \-f " 
.RI [ " filename " | " \fB+\fPfolder"
] ]
.RB [ " \-T "
.IR file " ]"
.if n .ti +0.5i
.RB [ " \-u "
.IR user " ]"
.LP
.B Mail
.RB [ " \-dFinUv " ]
.RB [ " \-h "
.IR number " ]"
.RB [ " \-r "
.IR address " ]"
.RB [ " \-s "
.IR subject " ]"
.if n .ti +0.5i
.I recipient
\&.\|.\|.
.LP
.B /usr/ucb/mail
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "mail command"  ""  "\fLmail\fP \(em send and receive mail"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "send and receive mail"  ""  "send and receive mail \(em \fLmail\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "read mail"  ""  "read mail \(em \fLmail\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  communications  mail  ""  "\fLmail\fP \(em send and receive mail"  PAGE START
.LP
.B mail
is a comfortable, flexible, interactive program for composing, sending
and receiving electronic messages.  While reading messages,
.B mail
provides you with
commands to browse, display, save, delete, and respond to messages.
While sending mail, 
.B mail
allows editing and reviewing of messages being composed, and the
inclusion of text from files or other messages.
.LP
Incoming mail is stored in the
.I system mailbox 
for each user.  This is a file named after the user in
.BR /var/spool/mail .
.B mail
normally looks in this file for incoming messages, but you
can use the
.SB MAIL
environment variable to have it look in a different file.
When you read a message, it is
marked to be moved to a secondary file for storage. 
This secondary file, called the 
.IR mbox ,
is normally the file
.B mbox
in your home directory. 
This file can also be changed by setting the
.SB MBOX
environment variable.  Messages remain in the 
.I mbox
file until deliberately removed.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
If no 
.I recipient 
is specified, 
.B mail
attempts to read messages from the system mailbox.  
.TP 14
.B \-d
Turn on debugging output.  
(Neither particularly interesting nor recommended.)
.TP 
.B \-e
Test for presence of mail.
If there is no mail,
.B mail
prints nothing and exits (with a successful return code).
.TP
.B \-F
Record the message in a file named after the first recipient.
Override the 
.B record 
variable, if set.
.TP
.B \-H
Print header summary only.
.TP
.B \-i
Ignore interrupts (as with the
.B ignore 
variable).
.TP 
.B \-n
Do not initialize from the system default
.B Mail.rc
file.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not print initial header summary.
.TP
.B \-U
Convert
.B uucp
style addresses to Internet standards.
Overrides the 
.B conv
environment variable.
.TP
.B \-v
Pass the
.B \-v
flag to
.BR sendmail (8).
.TP
.BI "\-f\fR [\fP" filename\fR]
Read messages from 
.I filename
instead of system mailbox.  If no 
.I filename
is specified, the 
.I mbox
is used.
.TP
.BI "\-f\fR \fP+" folder
Use the file
.I folder
in the folder directory (same as the
.BR fold er 
command).  The name of this directory is listed in the
.B folder
variable.
.TP
.BI \-h " number"
The number of network \*(lqhops\*(rq made so far.
This is provided for network
software to avoid infinite delivery loops.
.TP
.BI \-r " address"
Pass
.I address
to network delivery software.
All tilde
.RB ( \(ap )
commands are disabled.
.TP
.BI \-s " subject"
Set the
.B Subject
header field to
.IR subject .
.TP
.BI \-T " file"
Print the contents of the
.I article-id
fields of all messages that were read or deleted on
.IR file 
(for the use of
network news programs if available).
.TP
.BI \-u " user"
Read
.IR user 's
system mailbox.
This is only effective if
.IR user 's
system mailbox is not read protected.
.SH USAGE
Refer to 
.TX GSBG
for tutorial information about 
.BR mail .
.SS Starting Mail
.LP
As it starts,
.B mail
reads commands from a system-wide file
.RB ( /usr/lib/Mail.rc \|)
to initialize certain variables,
then it reads from a private start-up file called the
.I \&.mailrc
file (it is normally the file
.B \&.mailrc
in your home directory, but can be changed by setting the
.SB MAILRC
environment variable) for your personal commands and variable settings.  
Most 
.B mail
commands are legal inside start-up files.  The most common uses
for this file are to set up initial display options and alias lists.
The following commands are 
.I not 
legal in the start-up file:
.BR ! ,
.BR C opy,
.BR e dit,
.BR fo llowup,
.BR F ollowup,
.BR ho ld,
.BR m ail,
.BR pre serve,
.BR r eply,
.BR R eply,
.BR replya ll,
.BR replys ender,
.BR sh ell,
and
.BR v isual.
Any errors in the start-up file cause the remaining lines in that file 
to be ignored.
.LP
You can use the 
.B mail
command to send a message directly by including names of recipients as 
arguments on the command line.  When no recipients appear on the 
.B mail
command line, it enters command mode, from which you can read
messages sent to you.  If you list no recipients and have no messages,
.B mail
prints the message:
.RB ` "No mail for \fIusername\fP" '
and exits.
.LP
When in command mode (while reading messages), you can send messages 
using the 
.BR m ail
command.
.SS Sending Mail
.LP
While you are composing a message to send,
.B mail
is in 
.I input 
mode. 
If no subject is specified as an argument to the command
a prompt for the subject is printed. 
After entering the subject line,
.B mail
enters 
.I input 
mode to accept the text of your message to send.
.LP
As you type in the message,
.B mail 
stores it in a temporary file.
To review or modify the message, enter the appropriate 
.IR "tilde escapes" ,
listed below, at the beginning of an input line.
.LP
To indicate that the message is ready to send, type a dot
(or
.SM EOF
character, normally
.SM CTRL-D\s0 )
on a line by itself.  
.B mail
submits the message to
.BR sendmail (8)
for routing to each 
.IR recipient .
.LP
Recipients can be;
.IP \(bu
local usernames
.IP \(bu
Internet addresses of the form:
.RS
.IP
.IB name @ domain
.RE
.IP \(bu
.BR uucp (1C)
addresses of the form:
.RS
.IP
[\fIhost\fB!\fR.\|.\|.\fIhost\fB!\fR]\fIhost\fB!\fIusername
.RE
.IP \(bu
filenames for which you have write permission
.IP \(bu
alias groups
.LP
If the name of the
.I recipient 
begins with a pipe symbol 
.RB ( \||\| ),
the remainder of the name is taken as a shell command to pipe
the message through.  This provides an automatic interface with
any program that reads the standard input, such as
.BR lpr (1)
to record outgoing mail on paper.
An alias group is the name of a list of recipients that is set by the 
.B alias
command, taken from the host's
.B /etc/aliases
file, or taken from the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
aliases domain.
See
.BR aliases (5)
for more information about mail addresses and aliases.
.SS Tilde Escapes
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  ""  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "tilde escapes in mail"  ""  "tilde escapes in \fLmail\fP"  ""  PAGE START
The following 
.I tilde escape
commands can be used when composing messages to send. 
Each must appear at the beginning of an input line.
The escape character (\|\(ap\|), can be changed by setting a new
value for the 
.B escape
variable.
The escape character can be entered as text by typing it twice.
.HP
.B \(ap! 
.RI [ shell-command ]
.br
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~!"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(ap!\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "~! mail tilde escape"  ""  "\fL\(ap!\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Escape to the shell.
If present, run
.IR shell-command .
.TP
.B \(ap.
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~."  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(ap.\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "~. mail tilde escape"  ""  "\fL\(ap.\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Simulate
.SM EOF
(terminate message input).
.HP
.B \(ap: 
.I mail-command
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.B \(ap_ 
.I mail-command
.br
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~:"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(ap:\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "~: mail tilde escape"  ""  "\fL\(ap:\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~_"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(ap_\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "~_ mail tilde escape"  ""  "\fL\(ap_\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Perform the indicated
.B mail
command.
Valid only when sending a message while reading mail.
.PD
.TP
.B \(ap?
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~?"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(ap?\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "~? mail tilde escape"  ""  "\fL\(ap?\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Print a summary of tilde escapes.
.TP
.B \(apA
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~A"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(apA\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "A"  ""  "\fL\(apA\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Insert the autograph string 
.B Sign
into the message.
.TP
.B \(apa
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~a"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(apa\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "a"  ""  "\fL\(apa\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Insert the autograph string 
.B sign
into the message.
.TP
\fB\(apb\fI name\fR .\|.\|.
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~b"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(apb\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "b"  ""  "\fL\(apb\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Add the 
.IR name s
to the blind carbon copy
.RB ( Bcc )
list.  This is like the carbon copy
.RB ( Cc )
list, except that the names in the
.B Bcc
list are not shown in the header
of the mail message.
.TP
\fB\(apc\fI name\fR .\|.\|.
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~c"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(apc\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "c"  ""  "\fL\(apc\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Add the 
.IR name s
to the carbon copy
.RB ( Cc )
list.
.TP
.B \(apd
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~d"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(apd\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "d"  ""  "\fL\(apd\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Read in the 
.I dead.letter
file.
The name of this file is listed in the variable
.BR \s-1DEAD\s0 .
.TP
.B \(ape
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~e"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(ape\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "e"  ""  "\fL\(ape\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Invoke the editor to edit the message. 
The name of the editor is listed in the
.SB EDITOR
variable.
The default editor is
.BR ex (1).
.HP
.BI \(apf 
.RI [ message-list ]
.br
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~f"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(apf\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "f"  ""  "\fL\(apf\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Forward the listed messages, or the current message being read.
Valid only when sending a message while reading mail;
the messages are inserted without alteration (as opposed to the
.B \(apm
escape).  
.TP
.B \(aph
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~h"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(aph\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "h"  ""  "\fL\(aph\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Prompt for the message header lines:
.BR Subject ,
.BR To ,
.BR Cc ,
and
.BR Bcc .
If the header line contains text, you can edit the text by
backspacing over it and retyping.
.TP
.BI \(api " variable"
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~i"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(api\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "i"  ""  "\fL\(api\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Insert the value of the named
.I variable
into the message.
.HP
.BI \(apm 
.RI [ message-list ]
.br
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~m"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(apm\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "m"  ""  "\fL\(apm\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Insert text from the specified messages, or the current message,
into the letter.  Valid only when sending a message while reading mail;
the text the message is shifted to the right, and the string contained
in the
.B indentprefix
variable is inserted as the leftmost characters of each line.
If 
.B indentprefix
is not set, a
.SM TAB
character is inserted into each line.
.TP
.B \(app
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~p"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(app\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "p"  ""  "\fL\(app\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Print the message being entered.
.TP
.B \(apq
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~q"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(apq\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "q"  ""  "\fL\(apq\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Quit from input mode by simulating an interrupt.  If the body of the 
message is not empty, the partial message is saved in the 
.I dead.letter
file.
.TP
.BI \(apr " filename"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \(ap< " filename"
.TP
.BI \(ap<! " shell-command"
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~r"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(apr\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "r"  ""  "\fL\(apr\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~<"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(ap<\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "~< mail tilde escape"  ""  "\fL\(ap<\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Read in text from the specified file or the standard output of
the specified
.IR shell-command .
.PD
.TP
.BI \(aps " subject"
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~s"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(aps\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "s"  ""  "\fL\(aps\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Set the subject line to
.IR subject .
.TP
.BI \(apt " name .\|.\|."
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~t"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(apt\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "t"  ""  "\fL\(apt\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Add each 
.I name
to the list of recipients.
.TP
.B \(apv
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~v"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(apv\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "v"  ""  "\fL\(apv\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Invoke a visual editor to edit the message.  The name of the editor
is listed in the
.SB VISUAL
variable.  The default visual editor is
.BR vi (1).
.TP
.BI \(apw " filename"
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~w"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(apw\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "w mail tilde escape"  ""  "\fL\(apw\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Write the message text onto the given file, without the header.
.TP
.B \(apx
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~x"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(apx\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "x mail tilde escape"  ""  "\fL\(apx\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Exit as with
.B \(apq
but do not save the message in the
.I dead.letter
file.
.TP
.BI \(ap| " shell-command"
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  "~|"  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  "\fL\(ap|\fP\ \ \ "
.IX  "~| mail tilde escape"  ""  "\fL\(ap|\fP\ \ \ \(em mail tilde escape"
Pipe the body of the message through the given 
.IR shell-command .
If 
.I shell-command
returns a successful exit status,
the output of the command replaces the message.
.IX  "mail tilde escapes"  ""  "\fLmail\fP tilde escapes"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "tilde escapes in mail"  ""  "tilde escapes in \fLmail\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "tilde escapes in mail"  ""  "tilde escapes in \fLmail\fP"  ""  PRINT "see also \fLmail\fP tilde escapes"
.SS Reading Mail
When you enter
.I command 
mode in order to read your messages, 
.B mail
displays a header summary of the first several messages,
followed by a prompt for one of the commands listed below.
The default prompt is the
.B &
(ampersand character).
.LP
Message are listed and referred to by number.
There is, at any time, a 
.B current
message, which is marked by a
.B >
in the header summary.  
For commands that take an optional list of messages,
if you omit a message number as an argument, the command applies
to the current message.
.LP
A 
.I message-list
is a list of message specifications, separated by
.SM SPACE
characters, which may include:
.RS
.TP
.B \&.
The current message.
.PD 0
.TP
.I n
Message number
.IR n .
.TP
.B ^
The first undeleted message.
.TP
.B $
The last message.
.TP
.B +
The next undeleted message.
.TP
.B \-
The previous undeleted message.
.TP
.B *
All messages.
.TP
.IB n \- m
An inclusive range of message numbers.
.TP
.I user
All messages from
.IR user .
.TP
.BI / string
All messages with
.I string
in the subject line (case ignored).
.TP
.BI : c
All messages of type
.IR c ,
where
.I c
is one of:
.sp .5
.RS
.RS
.TP
.B d
deleted messages
.TP
.B n
new messages
.TP
.B o
old messages
.TP
.B r
read messages
.TP
.B u
unread messages
.RE
.RE
.IP
Note: the context of the command determines whether this type of
message specification makes sense.
.PD
.RE
.LP
Additional arguments are treated as strings whose usage
depends on the command involved.  Filenames, where expected,
are expanded using the normal shell filename-substitution
mechanism.
.LP
Special characters, recognized by certain commands, are
documented with those commands.
.SS Commands
.IX  "mail commands"  ""  "\fLmail\fP commands"  ""  PAGE START
While in command mode, if you type in an empty command line
(a
.SM RETURN
or
.SM NEWLINE
only), the
.BR p rint
command is assumed.  The following is a complete list of 
.B mail
commands:
.TP 18
.BI ! " shell-command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "!"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fL!\fP"
.IX  "! mail command"  ""  "\fL!\fP mail command"
Escape to the shell.  The name of the shell to use is listed in
the 
.SB SHELL
variable.
.TP
.BI # " arguments"
.IX  "mail commands"  "#"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fL#\fP"
.IX  "# mail command"  ""  "\fL#\fP mail command"
Null command.  This may be used as if it were a comment in 
.I \&.mailrc
files, but note that it must be separated from its arguments
(commentary) by white space.
.TP
.B =
.IX  "mail commands"  "="  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fL=\fP"
.IX  "= mail command"  ""  "\fL=\fP mail command"
Print the current message number.
.TP
.B ?
.IX  "mail commands"  "?"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fL?\fP"
.IX  "? mail command"  ""  "\fL?\fP mail command"
Print a summary of commands.
.HP
.BR a lias 
.RI [ "alias recipient" \|.\|.\|.\^]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.BR g roup 
.RI [ "alias recipient" \|.\|.\|.\^]
.br
.IX  "mail commands"  "alias"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLalias\fP"
.IX  "alias mail command"  ""  "\fLalias\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "group"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLgroup\fP"
.IX  "group mail command"  ""  "\fLgroup\fP mail command"
Declare an alias for the given list of recipients. 
The list will be substituted when the
.I alias
is used as a recipient while sending mail.  When put in the
.I \&.mailrc
file, this command provides you with a record of the alias.  With no 
arguments, the command displays the list of defined aliases.
.PD
.TP
.BR alt "ernates\fI name \fP.\|.\|."
.IX  "mail commands"  "alternates"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLalternates\fP"
.IX  "alternates mail command"  ""  "\fLalternates\fP mail command"
Declare a list of alternate names for your login.
When responding to a message,
these names are removed from the list of recipients for the response.
With no arguments,
.BR alt ernates
prints the current list of alternate names.
.HP
.BR cd [ 
.IR directory ]
.br
.PD 0
.TP
.BR ch "dir [\fIdirectory\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "cd"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLcd\fP"
.IX  "cd mail command"  ""  "\fLcd\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "chdir"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLchdir\fP"
.IX  "chdir mail command"  ""  "\fLchdir\fP mail command"
Change directory.  If 
.I directory
is not specified,
.SM $HOME
is used.
.PD
.HP
.BR c opy 
.RI [ message-list ]
.RI [ filename ]
.br
.IX  "mail commands"  "copy"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLcopy\fP"
.IX  "copy mail command"  ""  "\fLcopy\fP mail command"
Copy messages to the file without marking the messages as saved.
Otherwise equivalent to the
.BR s ave
command.
.TP
.BR C "opy [\fImessage-list\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "copya"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLCopy\fP"
.IX  "copya mail command"  ""  "\fLCopy\fP mail command"
Save the specified messages in a file whose name is derived from the
author of the
message to be saved, without marking the messages as saved.
Otherwise equivalent to the
.BR S ave
command.
.TP
.BR d "elete [\fImessage-list\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "delete"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLdelete\fP"
.IX  "delete mail command"  ""  "\fLdelete\fP mail command"
Delete messages from the system mailbox.  If the variable
.B autoprint
is set, print the message following the last message deleted.
.HP
.BR di scard 
.RI [ header-field .\|.\|.\^]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.BR ig nore
.RI [ header-field .\|.\|.\^]
.br
.IX  "mail commands"  "discard"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLdiscard\fP"
.IX  "discard mail command"  ""  "\fLdiscard\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "ignore"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLignore\fP"
.IX  "ignore mail command"  ""  "\fLignore\fP mail command"
Suppress printing of the specified header fields when displaying 
messages on the screen, such as 
\*(lqStatus\*(rq and \*(lqReceived\*(rq.
The fields are included when the message is saved unless the
variable
.B alwaysignore
is set.
The
.BR P rint
and
.BR T ype
commands display all header fields, ignored or not.
.PD
.HP
.B dp 
.RI [ message-list ]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.BR dt " [\fImessage-list\fP]"
.br
.IX  "mail commands"  "dp"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLdp\fP"
.IX  "dp mail command"  ""  "\fLdp\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "dt"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLdt\fP"
.IX  "dt mail command"  ""  "\fLdt\fP mail command"
Delete the specified messages from the system mailbox, and print the 
message after the last one deleted.  Equivalent to a
.BR d elete
command followed by a
.BR p rint
command.
.PD
.TP
.BR ec "ho [\fIstring \fP.\|.\|.\|]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "echo"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLecho\fP"
.IX  "echo mail command"  ""  "\fLecho\fP mail command"
Echo the given strings (like
.BR echo (1V)).
.TP
.BR e "dit [\fImessage-list\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "edit"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLedit\fP"
.IX  "edit mail command"  ""  "\fLedit\fP mail command"
Edit the given messages.
The messages are placed in a temporary file and the
.SB EDITOR
variable is used to get the name of the editor.
The default editor is
.BR ex (1).
.TP
.BR ex it
.PD 0
.TP
.BR x it
.IX  "mail commands"  "exit"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLexit\fP"
.IX  "exit mail command"  ""  "\fLexit\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "xit"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLxit\fP"
.IX  "xit mail command"  ""  "\fLxit\fP mail command"
Exit from 
.B mail
without changing the system mailbox.
No messages are saved in the 
.I mbox
(see also
.BR q uit).
.PD
.HP
.BR fi le 
.RI [ filename ]
.br
.PD 0
.TP
.BR fold "er [\fIfilename\fP]
.IX  "mail commands"  "file"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLfile\fP"
.IX  "file mail command"  ""  "\fLfile\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "folder"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLfolder\fP"
.IX  "folder mail command"  ""  "\fLfolder\fP mail command"
Quit from the current mailbox file and read in the named mailbox
file.  Several special characters are recognized when used as file 
names:
.PD
.RS
.RS
.TP 10
.B %
.PD 0
Your system mailbox.
.TP
.BI % user
The system mailbox for
.IR user .
.TP
.B #
The previous mail file.
.TP
.B &
Your
.I mbox
file (of messages previously read).
.TP
.BI + filename
The named file in the 
.I folder
directory (listed in the
.B folder
variable).
.PD
.RE
.RE
.IP
With no arguments,
.BR fi le
prints the name of the current mail file, and the number of messages 
and characters it contains.
.TP
.B folders
.IX  "mail commands"  "folders"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLfolders\fP"
.IX  "folders mail command"  ""  "\fLfolders\fP mail command"
Print the name of each mail file in the 
.I folder
directory (listed in the
.B folder
variable).
.TP
.BR fo "llowup [\fImessage\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "followup"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLfollowup\fP"
.IX  "followup mail command"  ""  "\fLfollowup\fP mail command"
Respond to a message, recording the response in a file, name of which 
is derived from the author of the message (overrides the 
.B record
variable, if set).
See also the
.BR F ollowup,
.BR S ave,
and
.BR C opy
commands and the
.B outfolder
variable.
.HP
.BR F ollowup 
.RI [ message-list ]
.br
.IX  "mail commands"  "followupa"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLFollowup\fP"
.IX  "followupa mail command"  ""  "\fLFollowup\fP mail command"
Respond to the first message in the message list,
sending the message to the author of each message in the list.
The subject line is taken from the first message,
and the response is recorded in a file, the name of which is derived 
from the author of the first message (overrides the
.B record
variable, if set).
See also the
.BR fo llowup,
.BR S ave,
and
.BR C opy
commands and the
.B outfolder
variable.
.TP
.BR f "rom [\fImessage-list\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "from"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLfrom\fP"
.IX  "from mail command"  ""  "\fLfrom\fP mail command"
Print the header summary for the indicated messages or the
current message.
.TP
.BR g "roup\fI alias name\fP .\|.\|."
Same as the 
.BR a lias
command.
.TP
.BR h "eaders [\fImessage\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "headers"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLheaders\fP"
.IX  "headers mail command"  ""  "\fLheaders\fP mail command"
Print the page of headers that includes the message specified,
or the current message.  The 
.B screen
variable sets the number of headers per page.
See also the
.B z
command.
.TP
.BR hel p
.IX  "mail commands"  "help"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLhelp\fP"
.IX  "help mail command"  ""  "\fLhelp\fP mail command"
Print a summary of commands.
.br
.ne 4
.HP
.BR ho ld 
.RI [ message-list ]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.BR pre serve 
.RI  [ message-list ]
.br
.IX  "mail commands"  "hold"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLhold\fP"
.IX  "hold mail command"  ""  "\fLhold\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "preserve"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLpreserve\fP"
.IX  "preserve mail command"  ""  "\fLpreserve\fP mail command"
Hold the specified messages in the system mailbox.
.PD
.HP
.BR i f 
.IR s \||\| r \||\| t
.br
.PD 0
.TP
.I mail-command
.TP
\&.\|.\|.
.TP
.BR el se
.TP
.I mail-command
.TP
\&.\|.\|.
.TP
.BR en dif
.IX  "mail commands"  "if"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLif\fP"
.IX  "if mail command"  ""  "\fLif\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "else"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLelse\fP"
.IX  "else mail command"  ""  "\fLelse\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "endif"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLendif\fP"
.IX  "endif mail command"  ""  "\fLendif\fP mail command"
Conditional execution, where
.I s
will execute following 
.I mail-command
up to an
.BR el se
or
.BR en dif,
if the program is in
.I send
mode,
.I r
executes the 
.I mail-command
only in
.I receive
mode, and
.I t
executes the 
.I mail-command
only if
.B mail
is being run from a terminal.  Useful primarily in the 
.I \&.mailrc
file.
.PD
.HP
.BR ig nore 
.RI  [ header-field .\|.\|.\|]
.br
Same as the 
.BR di scard
command.
.TP
.B inc
.IX  "mail commands"  "inc"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLinc\fP"
.IX  "inc mail command"  ""  "\fLinc\fP mail command"
Incorporate messages that arrive while you are reading the
system mailbox.  The new messages are added to the message list in the
current
.B mail
session.  This command does not commit changes made during
the session, and prior messages are not renumbered.
.TP
.BR l ist
.IX  "mail commands"  "list"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLlist\fP"
.IX  "list mail command"  ""  "\fLlist\fP mail command"
Prints all commands available.  No explanation is given.
.HP
.BR lo ad
.RI [ message ]
.I filename
.br
.IX  "mail commands"  "load"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLload\fP"
.IX  "load mail command"  ""  "\fLload\fP mail command"
Load the specified message from the name file.
.I filename
should contain a single mail message including mail headers
(as saved by the
.BR s ave
command).
.TP
.BR m "ail\fI recipient \fP.\|.\|."
.IX  "mail commands"  "mail"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLmail\fP"
.IX  "mail mail command"  ""  "\fLmail\fP mail command"
Mail a message to the specified recipients.
.TP
.BR mb "ox [\fImessage-list\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "mbox"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLmbox\fP"
.IX  "mbox mail command"  ""  "\fLmbox\fP mail command"
Arrange for the given messages to end up in the standard 
.I mbox
file when 
.B mail
terminates normally.
See also the
.BR ex it
and
.BR q uit
commands.
.HP
.BR ne w
.RI [ message-list ]
.br
.PD 0
.BR N ew
.RI [ message-list ]
.br
.BR unr ead
.RI [ message-list ]
.br
.HP
.BR U nread 
.RI [ message-list ]
.br
.IX  "mail commands"  "new"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLnew\fP"
.IX  "new mail command"  ""  "\fLnew\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "unread"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLunread\fP"
.IX  "unread mail command"  ""  "\fLunread\fP mail command"
Take a message list and mark each message as
.I not
having been read.
.PD
.TP
.BR n "ext\fI message\fP"
.IX  "mail commands"  "next"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLnext\fP"
.IX  "next mail command"  ""  "\fLnext\fP mail command"
Go to next message matching 
.IR message .
A 
.I message-list
can be given instead of
.IR message ,
but only first valid message in the list is used.  (This can be used, 
for instance, to jump to the next message from a specific user.)
.HP
.BR pi pe 
.RI [ message-list ]
.RI [ shell-command ]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.B | 
.RI [ message-list ]
.RI [ shell-command ]
.br
.IX  "mail commands"  "pipe"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLpipe\fP"
.IX  "pipe mail command"  ""  "\fLpipe\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "|"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fL|\fP"
.IX  "| mail command"  ""  "\fL|\fP mail command"
Pipe the message through 
.IR shell-command .
The message is treated marked as read (and normally saved to the
.I mbox
file when 
.B mail 
exits).  If no arguments are given, the current message is piped 
through the command specified by the value of the 
.B cmd 
variable.  If the 
.B page
variable is set, a form feed character is inserted after each message.
.PD
.HP
.BR pre serve 
.RI [ message-list ]
.br
Same as the 
.BR ho ld
command.
.HP
.BR p rint 
.RI [ message-list ]
.br
.PD 0
.TP
.BR t "ype [\fImessage-list\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "print"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLprint\fP"
.IX  "print mail command"  ""  "\fLprint\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "type"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLtype\fP"
.IX  "type mail command"  ""  "\fLtype\fP mail command"
Print the specified messages.  If the 
.B crt
variable is set, messages longer than the number of lines it indicates
paged through the command specified by the
.SB PAGER
variable.  The default paging command is
.BR more (1).
.PD
.HP
.BR P rint 
.RI [ message-list ]
.br
.PD 0
.TP
.BR T "ype [\fImessage-list\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "printa"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLPrint\fP"
.IX  "printa mail command"  ""  "\fLPrint\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "typea"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLType\fP"
.IX  "typea mail command"  ""  "\fLType\fP mail command"
Print the specified messages on the screen, including all header fields.
Overrides suppression of fields by the
.BR ig nore
and
.BR ret ain
commands.
.PD
.TP
.BR q uit
.IX  "mail commands"  "quit"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLquit\fP"
.IX  "quit mail command"  ""  "\fLquit\fP mail command"
Exit from 
.B mail
storing messages that were read in the
.I mbox
file and unread messages in the system mailbox.
Messages that have been explicitly saved in a file are deleted
unless the variable
.B keepsave
is set.
.HP
.BR r eply 
.RI  [ message-list ]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.BR r espond 
.RI  [ message-list ]
.br
.HP
.BR replys ender 
.RI  [ message-list ]
.br
.IX  "mail commands"  "reply"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLreply\fP"
.IX  "reply mail command"  ""  "\fLreply\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "respond"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLrespond\fP"
.IX  "respond mail command"  ""  "\fLrespond\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "replysender"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLreplysender\fP"
.IX  "replysender mail command"  ""  "\fLreplysender\fP mail command"
Send a response to the author of each message in the 
.IR message-list .
The subject line is taken from the first message.  If 
.B record
is set to a filename, a copy of the
reply is added to that file.
If the 
.B replyall
variable is set, the actions of
.BR R eply/ R espond
and
.BR r eply/ r espond
are reversed.
The
.BR replys ender
command is not 
affected by the 
.B replyall
variable, but sends each reply only to the sender of each
message.
.PD
.HP
.BR R eply 
.RI [ message ]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.BR R espond 
.RI [ message ]
.br
.TP
.BR replya "ll [\fImessage\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "replya"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLReply\fP"
.IX  "replya mail command"  ""  "\fLReply\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "responda"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLRespond\fP"
.IX  "responda mail command"  ""  "\fLRespond\fP mail command"
.IX  "mail commands"  "replyalla"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLReplyall\fP"
.IX  "replyalla mail command"  ""  "\fLReplyall\fP mail command"
Reply to the specified message, including all other recipients of that
message.  If the variable
.B record
is set to a filename, a copy of the reply added to that file.
If the 
.B replyall
variable is set, the actions of
.BR R eply/ R espond
and
.BR r eply/ r espond
are reversed.  The
.BR replya ll
command is not affected by the 
.B replyall
variable, but always sends the reply to all recipients of the
message.
.PD
.TP
.BR ret ain
Add the list of header fields named to the
.IR "retained list" .
Only the header fields in the retain list
are shown on your terminal when you print a message.
All other header fields are suppressed.  The set of retained fields
specified by the
.BR ret ain
command overrides any list of ignored fields specified by the
.BR ig nore
command.
The
.BR T ype
and
.BR P rint
commands can be used to print a message in its entirety.
If
.BR ret ain
is executed with no arguments, it lists the current set of
retained fields.
.HP
.BR s ave 
.RI [ message-list ]
.RI [ filename ]
.br
.IX  "mail commands"  "save"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLsave\fP"
.IX  "save mail command"  ""  "\fLsave\fP mail command"
Save the specified messages in the named file.
The file is created if it does not exist.  If no
.I filename
is specified, the file named in the
.SB MBOX
variable is used, 
.B mbox
in your home directory by default.
Each saved message is deleted from the system mailbox when
.B mail
terminates unless the
.B keepsave
variable is set.
See also the
.BR ex it
and
.BR q uit
commands.
.TP
.BR S "ave [\fImessage-list\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "savea"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLSave\fP"
.IX  "save mail command"  ""  "\fLSave\fP mail command"
Save the specified messages in a file whose name is derived from
the author of the first message.
The name of the file is taken from the author's name, with all
network addressing stripped off.  See also the
.BR C opy,
.BR fo llowup,
and
.BR F ollowup
commands and the
.B outfolder
variables.
.HP
.BR se t
.RI [ variable [\c
.BI = value \fR]\|]
.br
.IX  "mail commands"  "set"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLset\fP"
.IX  "set mail command"  ""  "\fLset\fP mail command"
Define a 
.IR variable .
To assign a 
.I value 
to
.IR variable ,
separate the variable name from the value by an
.RB ` = '
(there must be no space before or after the
.RB ` = ').
A variable may be given a null, string, or numeric 
.IR value .
To embed
.SM SPACE
characters within a
.I value
enclose it in quotes.
.IP
With no arguments,
.BR se t
displays all defined variables and any values they might have.
See 
.B Variables
for a description of all predefined
.B mail
variables.
.TP
.BR sh ell
.IX  "mail commands"  "shell"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLshell\fP"
.IX  "shell mail command"  ""  "\fLshell\fP mail command"
Invoke the interactive shell listed in the
.SB SHELL
variable.
.TP
.BR si "ze [\fImessage-list\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "size"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLsize\fP"
.IX  "size mail command"  ""  "\fLsize\fP mail command"
Print the size in characters of the specified messages.
.TP
.BR so "urce\fI filename\fP"
.IX  "mail commands"  "source"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLsource\fP"
.IX  "source mail command"  ""  "\fLsource\fP mail command"
Read commands from the given file and return to command mode.
.TP
.BR to "p [\fImessage-list\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "top"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLtop\fP"
.IX  "top mail command"  ""  "\fLtop\fP mail command"
Print the top few lines of the specified messages.
If the 
.B toplines
variable is set, it is taken as the number of lines to print.
The default number is 5.
.TP
.BR tou "ch [\fImessage-list\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "touch"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLtouch\fP"
.IX  "touch mail command"  ""  "\fLtouch\fP mail command"
Touch the specified messages.  If any message in 
.I message-list
is not specifically saved in a file, it will be placed in the 
.I mbox
upon normal termination.  See also the
.BR ex it
and
.BR q uit
commands.
.TP
.BR t "ype [\fImessage-list\fP]"
Same as the
.BR p rint 
command.
.TP
.BR T "ype [\fImessage-list\fP]"
Same as the 
.BR P rint
command.
.HP
.BR u ndelete 
.RI [ message-list ]
.br
.IX  "mail commands"  "undelete"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLundelete\fP"
.IX  "undelete mail command"  ""  "\fLundelete\fP mail command"
Restore deleted messages.  This command
only restores messages 
.I
deleted in the current mail session.
If the 
.B autoprint
variable is set, the last message restored is printed.
.HP
.BR unr ead
.RI [ message-list ]
.br
.PD 0
.HP
.BR U nread 
.RI [ message-list ]
.br
Same as the 
.BR ne w
command.
.TP
.BR uns "et \fIvariable \fP.\|.\|."
.IX  "mail commands"  "unset"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLunset\fP"
.IX  "unset mail command"  ""  "\fLunset\fP mail command"
Erase the specified variables.
If the variable was imported from the environment (that is, an
environment variable or exported shell variable), it cannot be 
unset from within
.BR mail .
.PD
.TP
.BR ve rsion
.IX  "mail commands"  "version"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLversion\fP"
.IX  "version mail command"  ""  "\fLversion\fP mail command"
Print the current version and release date of the
.B mail
utility.
.TP
.BR v "isual [\fImessage-list\fP]"
.IX  "mail commands"  "visual"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLvisual\fP"
.IX  "visual mail command"  ""  "\fLvisual\fP mail command"
Edit the given messages with the screen editor listed in the
.SB VISUAL
variable.  The default screen editor is
.BR vi (1).
Each message is placed in a temporary file for editing.
.HP
.BR w rite 
.RI  [ message-list ]
.RI [ filename ]
.br
.IX  "mail commands"  "write"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLwrite\fP"
.IX  "write mail command"  ""  "\fLwrite\fP mail command"
Write the given messages onto the specified file, but without the header
and trailing blank line.  Otherwise, this is  equivalent to the
.BR s ave
command.
.TP
.BR x it
Same as the
.BR ex it
command.
.TP
.BR z [\| + \||\| \- \|]
.IX  "mail commands"  "z"  "\fLmail\fP commands"  "\fLz\fP"
.IX  "z mail command"  ""  "\fLz\fP mail command"
Scroll the header display forward 
.RB ( + )
or backward 
.RB ( \- )
one screenfull.  The number of headers displayed is set by the 
.B screen
variable.
.IX  "mail commands"  ""  "\fLmail\fP commands"  ""  PAGE END
.SS Forwarding Messages
.IX "forwarding mail"
.IX "mail forwarding messages" "" "\fLmail\fR, forwarding messages"
.IX "forward" "" "\fL.forward\fR file"
.LP
To forward a specific message, include it in a message to the
desired recipients with the
.B \(apf
or
.B \(apm
tilde escapes. 
To forward mail automatically, add a comma-separated list of addresses
for additional recipients to the 
.B \&.forward
file in your home directory.  This is different from the format
of the
.B alias
command, which takes a space-separated list instead.
Note: forwarding addresses must be valid (as described in
.BR aliases (5)),
or the messages will \*(lqbounce.\*(rq  You cannot, for
instance, reroute your mail to a new host by forwarding it to your
new address if it is not yet listed in the
.SM NIS
aliases domain.
.SS Variables
.IX  "mail variables"  ""  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fL\fP"  PAGE START
.IX  "environment variables in mail"  ""  "environment variables in \fLmail\fP"  ""  PAGE START
.LP
The behavior of 
.B mail
is governed by a set of predefined variables
that are set and cleared using the
.BR se t
and
.BR uns et
commands.  
.SS "\fIEnvironment Variables\fR"
Values for the following variables are read in 
automatically from the environment; they cannot be altered from within
.BR mail :
.HP 14
.SB HOME\c
.BI = directory
.br
.IX  "mail environment variables"  "HOME"  "\fLmail\fP environment variables"  "\fLHOME\fP"
.IX  "HOME mail environment variable"  ""  "\fLHOME\fP mail environment variable"
The user's home directory.
.HP
.SB MAIL\c
.BI = filename
.br
.IX  "mail environment variables"  "MAIL"  "\fLmail\fP environment variables"  "\fLMAIL\fP"
.IX  "MAIL mail environment variable"  ""  "\fLMAIL\fP mail environment variable"
The name of the initial mailbox file to read (in lieu of the
standard system mailbox).  The default is 
.BR /var/spool/mail/\fIusername\|\fR.
.HP
.SB MAILRC\c
.BI = filename
.br
.IX  "mail environment variables"  "MAILRC"  "\fLmail\fP environment variables"  "\fLMAILRC\fP"
.IX  "MAILRC mail environment variable"  ""  "\fLMAILRC\fP mail environment variable"
The name of the personal start-up file.  The
default is 
.BR $\s-1HOME\s0/.mailrc .
.br
.ne 6
.SS "\fIMail Variables"
.LP
The following variables can be initialized within the
.I \&.mailrc
file, or set and altered interactively using the
.BR se t
command.  
They can also be imported from the environment (in which
case their values cannot be changed within
.BR mail ).
The
.BR uns et
command clears variables. The set command can also be used to
clear a variable by prefixing the word
.B no
to the name of the variable to clear.
.LP
Variables for which values are normally supplied are indicated
with an equal-sign
.RB ( = ).  
The equal-sign is required by the 
.BR se t 
command, and there can be no spaces between the variable-name,
equal-sign, and value, using
.B set
to assign a value.
.TP 14
.B allnet
.IX  "mail variables"  "allnet"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLallnet\fP"
.IX  "allnet mail variable"  ""  "\fLallnet\fP mail variable"
All network names whose last component (login name) match are treated as
identical.
This causes the message list specifications to behave similarly.
Default is
.BR noallnet .
See also the
.BR alt ernates
command and the 
.B metoo
variable.
.TP
.B alwaysignore
.IX  "mail variables"  "alwaysignore"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLalwaysignore\fP"
.IX  "alwaysignore mail variable"  ""  "\fLalwaysignore\fP mail variable"
Ignore header fields with
.BR ig nore
everywhere, not just during
.BR p rint
or
.BR t ype.
Affects the
.BR s ave,
.BR S ave,
.BR c opy,
.BR C opy,
.BR to p,
.BR pi pe,
and
.BR w rite
commands, and the
.B \(apm
and
.B \(apf
tilde escapes.
.TP
.B append
.IX  "mail variables"  "append"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLappend\fP"
.IX  "append mail variable"  ""  "\fLappend\fP mail variable"
Upon termination, append messages to the end of the 
.I mbox
file instead of prepending them.
Default is
.B noappend
but
.B append
is set in the global start-up file (which can be suppressed with the
.B \-n
command line option).
.TP
.B askcc
.IX  "mail variables"  "askcc"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLaskcc\fP"
.IX  "askcc mail variable"  ""  "\fLaskcc\fP mail variable"
Prompt for the
.B Cc
list after message is entered.
Default is
.BR noaskcc .
.TP
.B asksub
.IX  "mail variables"  "asksub"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLasksub\fP"
.IX  "asksub mail variable"  ""  "\fLasksub\fP mail variable"
Prompt for subject if it is not specified on the command line
with the
.B \-s
option.
Enabled by default.
.TP
.B autoprint
.IX  "mail variables"  "autoprint"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLautoprint\fP"
.IX  "autoprint mail variable"  ""  "\fLautoprint\fP mail variable"
Enable automatic printing of messages after
.BR d elete
and
.BR u ndelete
commands.
Default is
.BR noautoprint .
.TP
.B bang
.IX  "mail variables"  "bang"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLbang\fP"
.IX  "bang mail variable"  ""  "\fLbang\fP mail variable"
Enable the special-casing of exclamation points (!) in shell escape
command lines
as in
.BR vi (1).
Default is
.BR nobang .
.TP
.BI cmd= shell-command
.IX  "mail variables"  "cmd"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLcmd\fP"
.IX  "cmd mail variable"  ""  "\fLcmd\fP mail variable"
Set the default command for the
.BR pi pe
command.
No default value.
.TP
.BI conv= conversion
.IX  "mail variables"  "conv"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLconv\fP"
.IX  "conv mail variable"  ""  "\fLconv\fP mail variable"
Convert
.B uucp
addresses to the address style specified by
.IR conversion ,
which can be either:
.RS
.TP
.B internet 
This requires a mail delivery program conforming to the
.SM RFC\s0822
standard for electronic mail addressing.
.TP
.B optimize
Remove loops in 
.BR uucp (1C)
address paths (typically generated by the
.BR r eply
command).  No rerouting is performed;
.B mail
has no knowledge of 
.SM UUCP
routes or connections.
.RE
.IP
Conversion is disabled by default.  See also 
.BR sendmail (8)
and the
.B \-U
command line option.
.TP
.BI crt= number
.IX  "mail variables"  "crt"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLcrt\fP"
.IX  "crt mail variable"  ""  "\fLcrt\fP mail variable"
Pipe messages having more than \fInumber\fR lines
through the command specified by the value of the 
.SB PAGER
variable
.RI ( more
by default).
Disabled by default.
.HP
.SB DEAD\c 
.BI = filename
.br
.IX  "mail variables"  "DEAD"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLDEAD\fP"
.IX  "DEAD mail variable"  ""  "\fLDEAD\fP mail variable"
The name of the file in which to save partial letters
in case of untimely interrupt or delivery errors.
Default is the file
.B dead.letter
in your home directory.
.TP
.B debug
.IX  "mail variables"  "debug"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLdebug\fP"
.IX  "debug mail variable"  ""  "\fLdebug\fP mail variable"
Enable verbose diagnostics for debugging.
Messages are not delivered.
Default is
.BR nodebug .
.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B dot
.IX  "mail variables"  "dot"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLdot\fP"
.IX  "dot mail variable"  ""  "\fLdot\fP mail variable"
Take a period on a line by itself during input from a terminal as
.SM EOF\s0.
Default is
.B nodot
but
.B dot
is set in the global start-up file (which can be suppressed with the
.B \-n
command line option).
.IX "mail variables" "editheaders" "\fLmail\fP variables" "\fLeditheaders\fP"
.IX "editheaders mail variable" "" "\fLeditheaders\fP mail variable" ""
.TP
.B editheaders
Include message headers in the text to be edited by the
.B ~e
and
.B ~v
commands.
.HP
.SB EDITOR\c
.BI = shell-command
.br
.IX  "mail variables"  "EDITOR"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLEDITOR\fP"
.IX  "EDITOR mail variable"  ""  "\fLEDITOR\fP mail variable"
The command to run when the
.BR e dit
or
.B \(ape
command is used.
Default is
.BR ex (1).
.TP
.BI escape= c
.IX  "mail variables"  "escape"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLescape\fP"
.IX  "escape mail variable"  ""  "\fLescape\fP mail variable"
Substitute
.I c
for the \(ap escape character.
.TP
.BI folder= directory
.IX  "mail variables"  "folder"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLfolder\fP"
.IX  "folder mail variable"  ""  "\fLfolder\fP mail variable"
The directory for saving standard mail files.
User specified file names beginning with a plus
.RB ( + )
are expanded by preceding the filename with
this directory name to obtain the real filename.
If 
.I directory
does not start with a slash 
.RB ( / ),
the value of 
.SB HOME 
is prepended to it.  There is no default for the 
.B folder
variable.
See also 
.B outfolder
below.
.TP
.B header
.IX  "mail variables"  "header"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLheader\fP"
.IX  "header mail variable"  ""  "\fLheader\fP mail variable"
Enable printing of the header summary when entering 
.BR mail .
Enabled by default.
.TP
.B hold
.IX  "mail variables"  "hold"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLhold\fP"
.IX  "hold mail variable"  ""  "\fLhold\fP mail variable"
Preserve all messages that are read in
the system mailbox instead of putting them
in the standard 
.I mbox
save file.
Default is
.BR nohold
for
.BR mail
and 
.B hold
for
.BR mailtool (1).
.TP
.B ignore
.IX  "mail variables"  "ignore"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLignore\fP"
.IX  "ignore mail variable"  ""  "\fLignore\fP mail variable"
Ignore interrupts while entering messages.
Handy for noisy dial-up lines.
Default is
.BR noignore .
.TP
.B ignoreeof
.IX  "mail variables"  "ignoreeof"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLignoreeof\fP"
.IX  "ignoreeof mail variable"  ""  "\fLignoreeof\fP mail variable"
Ignore
.SM EOF
during message input.
Input must be terminated by a period
.RB (` . ')
on a line by itself
or by the
.RB ` \(ap. '
command.
Default is
.BR noignoreeof .
See also 
.B dot
above.
.TP
.BI indentprefix= string
.IX  "mail variables"  "indentprefix"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLindentprefix\fP"
.IX  "indentprefix mail variable"  ""  "\fLindentprefix\fP mail variable"
When 
.B indentprefix
is set,
.I string
is used to mark indented lines from messages included with
.BR \(apm .
The default is a
.SM TAB
character.
.TP
.B keep
.IX  "mail variables"  "keep"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLkeep\fP"
.IX  "keep mail variable"  ""  "\fLkeep\fP mail variable"
When the system mailbox is empty,
truncate it to zero length instead of removing it.
Disabled by default.
.TP
.B keepsave
.IX  "mail variables"  "keepsave"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLkeepsave\fP"
.IX  "keepsave mail variable"  ""  "\fLkeepsave\fP mail variable"
Keep messages that have been saved in other files in the system
mailbox instead of deleting them.
Default is
.BR nokeepsave .
.HP
.SB LISTER\c
.BI = shell-command
.br
.IX  "mail variables"  "LISTER"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLLISTER\fP"
.IX  "LISTER mail variable"  ""  "\fLLISTER\fP mail variable"
The command (and options) to use when listing the files in the 
.B folder
directory.  The default is
.BR ls (1V).
.HP
.SB MBOX\c
.BI = filename
.br
.IX  "mail variables"  "MBOX"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLMBOX\fP"
.IX  "MBOX mail variable"  ""  "\fLMBOX\fP mail variable"
The name of the file to save messages which have been read.
The
.BR x it
command overrides this variable,
as does saving the message explicitly to another file.
Default is the file
.B mbox
in your home directory.
.TP
.B metoo
.IX  "mail variables"  "metoo"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLmetoo\fP"
.IX  "metoo mail variable"  ""  "\fLmetoo\fP mail variable"
If your login appears as a recipient,
do not delete it from the list.
Default is
.BR nometoo .
.TP
.B no
.IX  "mail variables"  "no"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLno\fP"
.IX  "no mail variable"  ""  "\fLno\fP mail variable"
When used as a prefix to a variable name, has the effect of
unsetting the variable.
.TP
.B onehop
.IX  "mail variables"  "onehop"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLonehop\fP"
.IX  "onehop mail variable"  ""  "\fLonehop\fP mail variable"
When responding to a message that was originally sent to several
recipients,
the other recipient addresses are normally forced to be relative to the
originating author's machine for the response.
This flag disables alteration of the recipients' addresses,
improving efficiency in a network where all machines can send directly
to all other machines (that is, one \*(lqhop\*(rq away).
.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B outfolder
.IX  "mail variables"  "outfolder"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLoutfolder\fP"
.IX  "outfolder mail variable"  ""  "\fLoutfolder\fP mail variable"
Locate the files used to record outgoing messages
in the directory specified by the 
.B folder
variable unless the
pathname is absolute.  Default is
.BR nooutfolder .
See 
.B folder
above and the
.BR S ave,
.BR C opy,
.BR fo llowup,
and
.BR F ollowup
commands.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B page
.IX  "mail variables"  "page"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLpage\fP"
.IX  "page mail variable"  ""  "\fLpage\fP mail variable"
Used with the
.BR pi pe
command to insert a form feed after each message sent through the pipe.
Default is
.BR nopage .
.HP
.SB PAGER\c
.BI = shell-command
.br
.IX  "mail variables"  "PAGER"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLPAGER\fP"
.IX  "PAGER mail variable"  ""  "\fLPAGER\fP mail variable"
The command to use as a filter for paginating output, along
with any options to be used.
Default is
.BR more (1).
.TP
.BI prompt= string
.IX  "mail variables"  "prompt"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLprompt\fP"
.IX  "prompt mail variable"  ""  "\fLprompt\fP mail variable"
Set the
.I command mode
prompt to 
.IR string .
Default is 
.RB ` & '.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B quiet
.IX  "mail variables"  "quiet"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLquiet\fP"
.IX  "quiet mail variable"  ""  "\fLquiet\fP mail variable"
Refrain from printing the opening message and version when entering 
.BR mail .
Default is
.BR noquiet .
.TP
.BI record= filename
.IX  "mail variables"  "record"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLrecord\fP"
.IX  "record mail variable"  ""  "\fLrecord\fP mail variable"
Record all outgoing mail in 
.IR filename .
Disabled by default.
See also the variable
.BR outfolder .
.TP
.B replyall
.IX  "mail variables"  "replyall"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLreplyall\fP"
.IX  "replyall mail variable"  ""  "\fLreplyall\fP mail variable"
Reverse the effect of the
.BR r eply
and
.BR R eply
commands.
.TP
.B save
.IX  "mail variables"  "save"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLsave\fP"
.IX  "save mail variable"  ""  "\fLsave\fP mail variable"
Enable saving of messages in the 
.I dead.letter
file on interrupt or delivery error.
See 
.SB DEAD
for a description of this file.  Enabled by default.
.TP
.BI screen= number
Set the number of lines in a screen\-full of headers for the
.BR h eaders
command.
.TP
.BI sendmail= shell-command
.IX  "mail variables"  "sendmail"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLsendmail\fP"
.IX  "sendmail mail variable"  ""  "\fLsendmail\fP mail variable"
Alternate command for delivering messages.  Note:
in addition to the expected list of recipients,
.B mail
also passes the
.BR \-i
and
.BR \-m ,
flags to the command.  Since these flags are not appropriate to
other commands, you may have to use a shell script that strips them
from the arguments list before invoking the desired command.
.TP
.B sendwait
.IX  "mail variables"  "sendwait"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLsendwait\fP"
.IX  "sendwait mail variable"  ""  "\fLsendwait\fP mail variable"
Wait for background mailer to finish before returning.
Default is
.BR nosendwait .
.HP
.SB SHELL\c
.BI = shell-command
.br
.IX  "mail variables"  "SHELL"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLSHELL\fP"
.IX  "SHELL mail variable"  ""  "\fLSHELL\fP mail variable"
The name of a preferred command interpreter.
Typically inherited from the environment, the shell is normally
the one you always use.  Otherwise defaults to 
.BR sh (1).
.TP
.B showto
.IX  "mail variables"  "showto"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLshowto\fP"
.IX  "showto mail variable"  ""  "\fLshowto\fP mail variable"
When displaying the header summary and the message is from you,
print the recipient's name instead of the author's name.
.TP
.BI sign= autograph
.IX  "mail variables"  "sign"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLsign\fP"
.IX  "sign mail variable"  ""  "\fLsign\fP mail variable"
The 
.I autograph
text inserted into the message when the
.B \(apa
(autograph) command is given.
No default
(see also the
.B \(api
tilde escape).
.TP
.BI Sign= autograph
.IX  "mail variables"  "sign"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLSign\fP"
.IX  "sign mail variable"  ""  "\fLSign\fP mail variable"
The 
.I autograph 
text inserted into the message when the
.B \(apA
command is given.  No default (see also the
.B \(api
tilde escape).
.TP
.BI toplines= number
.IX  "mail variables"  "toplines"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLtoplines\fP"
.IX  "toplines mail variable"  ""  "\fLtoplines\fP mail variable"
The number of lines of header to print with the
.BR to p
command.  Default is 5.
.TP
.B verbose
.IX  "mail variables"  "verbose"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLverbose\fP"
.IX  "verbose mail variable"  ""  "\fLverbose\fP mail variable"
Invoke
.B sendmail
with the
.B \-v
flag.
.HP
.SB VISUAL\c
.BI = shell-command
.br
.IX  "mail variables"  "VISUAL"  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fLVISUAL\fP"
.IX  "VISUAL mail variable"  ""  "\fLVISUAL\fP mail variable"
The name of a preferred screen editor.  Default is
.BR vi .
.IX  "mail variables"  ""  "\fLmail\fP variables"  "\fL\fP"  PAGE END
.IX  "environment variables in mail"  ""  "environment variables in \fLmail\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "environment variables in mail"  ""  "environment variables in \fLmail\fP"  ""  PRINT "see also \fLmail\fP environment variables"
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BI $\s-1HOME\s0/ .mailrc
personal start-up file
.TP 
.BI $\s-1HOME\s0/ .forward
list of recipients for automatic forwarding of messages
.TP
.BI $\s-1HOME\s0/ mbox
secondary storage file
.TP 
.BI $\s-1HOME\s0/ dead.letter
undeliverable messages file
.TP 
.B /var/spool/mail
directory for system mailboxes
.TP
.B /usr/lib/Mail.help*
help message files
.TP
.B /usr/lib/Mail.rc
global start-up file
.TP
.B /tmp/R[emqsx]*
temporary files
.PD
.br
.ne 6
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR biff (1),
.BR bin-mail (1),
.BR echo (1V),
.BR ex (1),
.BR fmt (1),
.BR ls (1V),
.BR mailtool (1),
.BR more (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR vacation (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR aliases (5),
.BR newaliases (8),
.BR sendmail (8)
.LP
.TX GSBG
.LP
.B mail 
is found in 
.BR /usr/ucb/Mail , 
as a link to 
.BR /usr/ucb/mail .
If you wish to use the original
(version 7)
.SM UNIX
mail program, you can find it in 
.BR /usr/bin/mail .  
Its man page is named
.BR bin-mail (1).
.SH BUGS
.LP
Where 
.I shell-command
is shown as valid, arguments are not always allowed.
Experimentation is recommended.
.LP
Internal variables imported from the execution environment cannot be
.BR uns et.
.LP
Replies do not always generate correct return addresses.  Try
resending the errant reply with
.B onehop
set.
.LP
.B mail 
does not lock your record file.  So, if you use a record file
and send two or more messages simultaneously, lines from the
messages may be interleaved in the record file.
.LP
The format for the
.B alias
command is a space-separated list of recipients, while the
format for an alias in either the 
.B \&.forward
or
.B /etc/aliases
is a comma-separated list.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
.IX  "mail command"  ""  "\fLmail\fP \(em send and receive mail"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "send and receive mail"  ""  "send and receive mail \(em \fLmail\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "read mail"  ""  "read mail \(em \fLmail\fP"  ""  PAGE END
.IX  communications  mail  ""  "\fLmail\fP \(em send and receive mail"  PAGE END
