.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)man.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 6.2 8/7/85
.TH MAN 1 "12 January 1988"
.SH NAME
man \- display reference manual pages; find reference pages by keyword
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B man
.RB "[\|" \-  "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-t "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-M
.IR path "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-T
.IR macro-package "\|]"
.RI "[\|[\|" section "\|] " title " .\|.\|.\|] .\|.\|."
.br
.B man
.RB "[\|" \-M
.IR path "\|]"
.BI \-k " keyword"
\&.\|.\|.
.br
.B man
.RB "[\|" \-M
.IR path "\|]"
.BI \-f " filename"
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX man "" "\fLman\fR \(em online display of reference pages"
.IX "online reference \(em \fLman\fR"
.LP
.B man
displays information from the reference manuals.
It can display complete manual pages that you select by
.IR title ,
or one-line summaries selected either by
.I keyword
.RB ( \-k ),
or by the name of an associated file
.RB ( \-f ).
.LP
A
.IR section ,
when given, applies to the
.I titles
that follow it on the command line (up to the next
.IR section ,
if any).
.B man
looks in the indicated section of the manual for those
.IR title s.
.I section
is either a digit (perhaps followed by a single letter indicating
the type of manual page), or one of the words
.BR new ,
.BR local ,
.BR old ,
or
.BR public .
The
abbreviations
.RB n ,
.BR l ,
.B o
and
.B p
are also allowed.
If
.I section
is omitted,
.B man
searches all reference sections
(giving preference to commands over functions)
and prints the first manual page it finds.
If no manual page is located,
.B man
prints an error message.
.LP
The reference page sources are typically located in the
.BR /usr/man/man?
directories.
Since these directories are optionally installed,
they may not reside on your host; you may have to mount 
.B /usr/man
from a host on which they do reside.
If there are preformatted, up-to-date versions in
corresponding
.B cat?
or
.B fmt?
directories,
.B man
simply displays or prints those versions.
If the preformatted
version of interest is out of date or missing,
.B man
reformats it prior to display.
If directories for the
preformatted versions are not provided, 
.B man
reformats a page whenever it is requested; it uses a temporary
file to store the formatted text during display.
.LP
If the standard output is not a terminal, or if the
.RB ` \- '
flag is given,
.B man
pipes its output through
.BR cat (1V).
Otherwise,
.B man
pipes its output through
.BR more (1)
to handle paging and underlining on the screen.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-t
.B man
arranges for the specified manual pages to be
.BR troff ed
to a suitable raster output device (see
.BR troff (1)
or
.BR vtroff (1)).
If both the
.B \-
and
.B \-t
flags are given,
.B man
updates the
.BR troff ed
versions of each named
.I title
(if necessary), but does not display them.
.TP
.BI \-M " path"
Change the search path for manual pages.
.I path
is a colon-separated list of directories that contain manual page
directory subtrees.
For example,
.B /usr/man/u_man:/usr/man/a_man
makes
.B man
search in the standard System V locations.
When used with the
.B \-k
or
.B \-f
options,
the
.B \-M
option must appear first.
Each directory in the
.I path
is assumed to contain subdirectories of the form
.BR man[1-8l-p] .
.TP
.BI \-T " macro-package"
.B man
uses
.I macro-package
rather than the standard
.B \-man
macros defined in
.B /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.an
for formatting manual pages.
.TP
.BI \-k " keyword .\|.\|."
.B man
prints out one-line summaries from the
.B whatis
database (table of contents) that contain any of the given
.IR keyword s.
The
.B whatis
database is created using the
.BR catman (8)
command with the
.B \-w
option.
.TP
.BI \-f " filename .\|.\|."
.B man
attempts to locate manual pages related to any of the given
.IR filename s.
It strips the leading pathname components from each
.IR filename ,
and then prints one-line summaries containing the resulting
basename or names.
This option also uses the
.B whatis
database.
.br
.ne 7
.SH "MANUAL PAGES"
.LP
Manual pages are
.BR troff (1)/ nroff (1)
source files prepared with the
.B \-man
macro package.
Refer to
.BR man (7),
or
.TX DOCS
for more information.
.LP
When formatting a manual page,
.B man
examines the first line to determine whether
it requires special processing.
.SS "Referring to Other Manual Pages"
.LP
If the first line of the manual page is a reference to another
manual page entry fitting the pattern:
.sp .5
.RS
.BI "\&.so man" "?*/ sourcefile"
.RE
.LP
.B man
processes the indicated file in place of the current one.
The reference must be expressed as
a pathname relative to the root of
the manual page directory subtree.
.LP
When the second or any subsequent line starts with
.BR \&.so ,
.B man
ignores it;
.BR troff (1)
or
.BR nroff (1)
processes the request in the usual manner.
.SS "Preprocessing Manual Pages"
.LP
If the first line is a string of the form:
.IP
\fB\'\|\e"\0 \fIX\fP
.LP
where
.I X
is separated from the
`\fB"\fP'
by a single
.SM SPACE
and consists of any combination of characters in the following list,
.B man
pipes its input to
.BR troff (1)
or
.BR nroff (1)
through the corresponding preprocessors.
.sp .5
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B e
.BR eqn (1),
or
.B neqn
for
.B nroff
.TP
.B r
.BR refer (1)
.TP
.B t
.BR tbl (1)
.TP
.B v
.BR vgrind (1)
.PD
.RE
.LP
If
.B eqn
or
.B neqn
is invoked,
it will automatically read the file
.B /usr/pub/eqnchar
(see
.BR eqnchar (7)).
If
.BR nroff (1)
is invoked,
.BR col (1V)
is automatically used.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 15
.SB MANPATH
If set,
its value overrides
.B /usr/man
as the default search path.
(The
.B \-M
flag, in turn, overrides this value.)
.TP
.SB PAGER
A program to use for interactively delivering
.BR man 's
output to the screen.
If not set,
.RB ` "more \-s" '
(see
.BR more (1))
is used.
.TP
.SB TCAT
The name of the program to use to display
.BR troff ed
manual pages.
If not set,
.RB ` "lpr \-t" '
(see
.BR lpr (1))
is used.
.TP
.SB TROFF
The name of the formatter to use when the
.B \-t
flag is given.
If not set,
.B troff
is used.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
.B /usr/[share]/man
root of the standard manual page directory subtree
.TP
.B /usr/[share]/man/man?/*
unformatted manual entries
.TP
.B /usr/[share]/man/cat?/*
.BR nroff ed
manual entries
.TP
.B /usr/[share]/man/fmt?/*
.BR troff ed
manual entries
.TP
.B /usr/[share]/man/whatis
table of contents and keyword database
.TP
.B /usr/[share]/lib/tmac/tmac.an
standard
.B \-man
macro package
.TP
.B /usr/pub/eqnchar
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR apropos (1),
.BR cat (1V),
.BR col (1V),
.BR eqn (1),
.BR lpr (1),
.BR more (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR refer (1),
.BR tbl (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR vgrind (1),
.BR vtroff (1),
.BR whatis (1),
.BR eqnchar (7),
.BR man (7),
.BR catman (8)
.br
.ne 5
.SH NOTES
.LP
Because
.B troff
is not 8-bit clean,
.B man
has not been made 8-bit clean.
.LP
The
.B \-f
and 
.B \-k
options use the
.B /usr/man/whatis
database, which is created by
.BR catman (8).
.br
.ne 4
.SH BUGS
.LP
The manual is supposed to be reproducible
either on a phototypesetter or on an
.SM ASCII
terminal.
However,
on a terminal some information
(indicated by font changes, for instance)
is necessarily lost.
.LP
Some dumb terminals cannot process the vertical motions produced
by the
.B e
.RB ( eqn (1))
preprocessing flag.
To prevent garbled output on these terminals,
when you use
.B e
also use
.BR t ,
to invoke
.BR col (1V)
implicitly.
This workaround has the disadvantage of eliminating superscripts and
subscripts \(em even on those terminals that can display them.
.SM CTRL-Q
will clear a terminal that gets confused by
.BR eqn (1)
output.
