.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)more.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD
.\"
.TH MORE 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
more, page \- browse or page through a text file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B more
[
.B \-cdflsu
] [
.BI \- lines
] [
.B +\fIlinenumber\fP
] [
.B +/\fIpattern\fP
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.I filename
\&.\|.\|. ]
.LP
.B page
[
.B \-cdflsu
] [
.BI \- lines
] [
.B +\fIlinenumber\fP
] [
.B +/\fIpattern\fP
] [
.I filename
\&.\|.\|. ]
.if n .ti +05i
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "more command"  ""  "\fLmore\fP \(em browse text file"
.IX  "page command"  ""  "\fLpage\fP \(em browse text file"
.IX  "text file, browse through" \fLmore\fP
.IX  "text file, browse through" \fLpage\fP
.IX  file  "browse more"  ""  "browse through text\(em \fLmore\fP"
.IX  file  "browse page"  ""  "browse through text\(em \fLpage\fP"
.IX  display "file by screenfuls \(em \fLmore\fP"
.LP
.B more
is a filter that displays the contents of a text
file
on the terminal, one screenful at a time.  It normally pauses after
each screenful, and prints
.B --More--
at the bottom of the screen.
.B more
provides a two-line overlap between screens for continuity.
If
.B more
is reading from a file rather than a pipe, the percentage of
characters displayed so far is also shown.
.LP
.B more
scrolls up to display one more line in response to a
.SM RETURN
character; it displays another screenful in response to a
.SM SPACE
character.  Other commands are listed below.
.LP
.B page
clears the screen before displaying the next screenful of text;
it only provides a one-line overlap between screens.
.LP
.B more
sets the terminal
to
.I noecho
mode, so that the output can be continuous.
Commands that you type do not normally show up on your terminal,
except for the
.B /
and
.B !
commands.
.LP
If the standard output is not a terminal,
.B more
acts just like
.BR cat (1V),
except that a header is printed before each file in a series.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
Clear before displaying.  Redrawing the screen instead of scrolling
for faster displays.  This option is ignored if
the terminal does not have the ability to clear to the end of a line.
.TP
.B \-d
Display error messages rather than ringing the terminal bell if
an unrecognized command is used.
This is helpful for inexperienced users.
.TP
.B \-f
Do not fold long lines.  This is useful when lines contain
nonprinting characters or escape sequences, such as those generated
when
.BR nroff (1)
output is piped through
.BR ul (1).
.TP
.B \-l
Do not treat
.SM FORMFEED
characters (\s-1CTRL-D\s0) as \*(lqpage breaks.\*(rq If
.B \-l
is not used,
.B more
pauses to accept commands after any line containing a
.BR ^L
character (\s-1CTRL-D\s0).  Also, if a file begins with a
.SM FORMFEED\s0,
the screen is cleared before the file is printed.
.TP
.B \-s
Squeeze.  Replace multiple blank lines with a single
blank line.  This is helpful when viewing
.BR nroff (1)
output, on the screen.
.TP
.B \-u
Suppress generation of underlining escape sequences.
Normally,
.B more
handles underlining, such as that produced
by
.BR nroff (1),
in a manner appropriate to the terminal.  If the terminal can
perform underlining or has a stand-out mode,
.B more
supplies appropriate escape sequences as called for in the
text file.
.TP
.BI \- lines
Display the indicated number of
.I lines
in each screenful, rather than the default (the number of lines
in the terminal screen less two).
.TP
.BI + linenumber\fP
Start up at
.IR linenumber .
.TP
.BI +/ pattern\fP
Start up two lines above the line containing the
regular expression
.IR pattern .
Note: unlike
editors, this construct should
.I not
end with a
.RB ` / '.
If it does, then the trailing slash is taken as a character in the
search pattern.
.br
.ne 8
.SH USAGE
.SS Environment
.LP
.B more
uses the terminal's
.BR termcap (5)
entry to determine its display characteristics, and
looks in the environment variable
.SB MORE
for any preset options.  For instance, to page through files using
the
.B \-c
mode by default, set the value of this variable to
.BR \-c .
(Normally, the command sequence to set up this
environment variable is placed in the
.B .login
or
.B .profile
file).
.SS Commands
.LP
The commands take effect immediately;  it is not necessary to
type a carriage return.
Up to the time when the command character itself is given,
the user may type the line kill character to cancel the numerical
argument being formed.
In addition, the user may type the erase character to redisplay the
.RB ` "--More--(\fIxx\fP%)" '
message.
.LP
In the following commands,
.I i
is a numerical argument
.RB ( 1
by default).
.TP 10
.IR i \s-1SPACE\s0
Display another screenful, or
.I i
more lines if
.I i
is specified.
.TP
.IR i \s-1RETURN\s0
Display another line, or
.I i
more lines, if specified.
.TP
.IB i ^D
(\s-1CTRL\s0\-D)
Display (scroll down) 11 more lines.
.I i
is given, the scroll size is set to
.IR i\| .
.TP
.IR i d
Same as
.BR ^D .
.TP
.IB i z
Same as
.SM SPACE,
except that
.IR i\| ,
if present, becomes the new default number
of lines per screenful.
.TP
.IB i s
Skip
.I i\|
lines and then print a screenful.
.TP
.IB i f
Skip
.I i
screenfuls and then print a screenful.
.TP
.IB i ^B
(\s-1CTRL-B\s0)
Skip back
.I i
screenfuls and then print a screenful.
.TP
.I b
Same as
.B ^B
(\s-1CTRL-D\s0).
.TP
.B q
.PD 0
.TP
.B Q
.PD
Exit from
.BR more .
.TP
.B =
Display the current line number.
.TP
.B v
Drop into the
.BR vi (1)
editor at the current line of the current
file.
.TP
.B h
Help.  Give a description of all the
.B more
commands.
.TP
.IB i / pattern
Search for the
.IR i\| th
occurrence of the regular expression
.IR pattern .
Display the screenful starting two lines prior to the line
that contains the
.IR i\| th
match for the regular expression
.IR pattern ,
or the end of a pipe, whichever comes first.  If
.B more
is displaying a file and there is no such match, its position
in the file remains unchanged.  Regular expressions can be
edited using erase and kill characters.
Erasing back past the first column cancels the search command.
.TP
.IB i n
Search for the
.IR i\| th
occurrence of the last
.I pattern
entered.
.TP
.B \'
Single quote.  Go to the point from which the last search started.
If no search has been performed in the current file,
go to the beginning of the file.
.TP
.BI ! command
Invoke a shell to execute
.IR command\| .
The characters
.B %
and
.BR ! ,
when used within
.I command
are replaced with the current filename
and the previous shell command,
respectively.
If there is no current filename,
.B %
is not expanded. Prepend a backslash to these characters to
escape expansion.
.TP
.IB i :n
Skip to the
.IR i\| th
next filename given in the command line,
or to the last filename in the list if
.I i
is out of range.
.TP
.IB i :p
Skip to the
.IR i\| th
previous filename given in the command line,
or to the first filename if
.I i
is out of range.
If given while
.B more
is positioned within a file, go to the
beginning of the file.
If
.B more
is reading from a pipe,
.B more
simply rings the terminal bell.
.br
.ne 2
.TP
.B :f
Display the current filename and line number.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B :q
.PD 0
.TP
.B :Q
.PD
Exit from
.B more
(same as
.B q
or
.B Q ).
.TP
.B \&.
Dot.  Repeat the previous command.
.TP
.B \s+3^\s0\|\e
Halt a partial display of text.
.B more
stops sending output, and displays the usual
.B --More--
prompt.  Unfortunately, some output is lost as a result.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/termcap
terminal data base
.TP
.B /usr/lib/more.help
help file
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cat (1V),
.BR csh (1),
.BR man (1),
.BR script (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR environ (5V),
.BR termcap (5)
.SH BUGS
Skipping backwards is too slow on large files.
