.\" @(#)mt.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH MT 1 "19 December 1989"
.SH NAME
mt \- magnetic tape control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mt
[
.B \-f
.I tapename
]
.I command
[
.I count
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "mt command"  ""  "\fLmt\fP \(em manipulate magnetic tape"
.IX  "manipulate magnetic tape"  ""  "manipulate magnetic tape \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "control magnetic tape"  ""  "control magnetic tape \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "magnetic tape"  manipulate  ""  "manipulate \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  tape  "manipulate magnetic"  ""  "manipulate magnetic \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "write EOF mark on magnetic tape"  ""  "write EOF mark on magnetic tape \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "skip forward magnetic tape files"  ""  "skip forward magnetic tape files \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "skip forward magnetic tape records"  ""  "skip forward magnetic tape records \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "skip backward magnetic tape files"  ""  "skip backward magnetic tape files \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "skip backward magnetic tape records"  ""  "skip backward magnetic tape records \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "backspace magnetic tape files"  ""  "backspace magnetic tape files \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "backspace magnetic tape records"  ""  "backspace magnetic tape records \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "rewind magnetic tape"  ""  "rewind magnetic tape \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "place magnetic tape unit off-line"  ""  "place magnetic tape unit off-line \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  get "magnetic tape unit status \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "place magnetic tape unit off-line"  ""  "place magnetic tape unit off-line \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "retension magnetic tape"  ""  "retension magnetic tape \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "erase magnetic tape"  ""  "erase magnetic tape \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "magnetic tape"  "write EOF mark on"  ""    "write EOF mark on \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "magnetic tape"  "skip forward files"  ""    "skip forward files \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "magnetic tape"  "skip forward records"  ""    "skip forward records \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "magnetic tape"  "forward space files"  ""    "forward space files \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "magnetic tape"  "forward space records"  ""    "forward space records \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "magnetic tape"  "skip backward files"  ""    "skip backward files \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "magnetic tape"  "skip backward records"  ""    "skip backward records \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "magnetic tape"  "backspace files"  ""    "backspace files \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "magnetic tape"  "backspace records"  ""    "backspace records \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "magnetic tape"  "rewind"  ""    "rewind \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "magnetic tape"  "place unit off-line"  ""    "place unit off-line \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "magnetic tape"  "get unit status"  ""    "get unit status \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "magnetic tape"  "retension"  ""    "retension \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  "magnetic tape"  "erase"  ""    "erase \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  tape  "write EOF mark on"  ""    "write EOF mark on \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  tape  "skip forward files"  ""    "skip forward files \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  tape  "skip forward records"  ""    "skip forward records \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  tape  "forward space files"  ""    "forward space files \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  tape  "forward space records"  ""    "forward space records \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  tape  "skip backward files"  ""    "skip backward files \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  tape  "skip backward records"  ""    "skip backward records \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  tape  "backspace files"  ""    "backspace files \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  tape  "backspace records"  ""    "backspace records \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  tape  "rewind"  ""    "rewind \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  tape  "place unit off-line"  ""    "place unit off-line \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  tape  "get unit status"  ""    "get unit status \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  tape  "retension"  ""    "retension \(em \fLmt\fP"
.IX  tape  "erase"  ""    "erase \(em \fLmt\fP"
.LP
.B mt
sends commands to a magnetic tape drive.
If
.I tapename
is not specified, the environment variable
.SB TAPE
is used.  If
.SB TAPE
does not exist,
.B mt
uses the device
.BR /dev/rmt12 .
.I tapename
refers to a raw tape device.
By default,
.B mt
performs the requested operation once;  multiple operations
may be performed by specifying
.IR count .
.LP
The available commands are listed below.  Only as many
characters as are required to uniquely identify a command
need be specified.
.LP
.B mt
returns a 0 exit status when the operation(s)
were successful, 1 if the command was
unrecognized or if
.B mt
was unable to open the specified tape drive,
and 2 if an operation failed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 13
.BR eof , " weof"
Write
.I count
.SM EOF
marks at the current position on the tape.
.TP
.B fsf
Forward space over
.I count
.SM EOF 
marks. 
The tape is positioned on the first block of the file.
.TP
.B fsr
Forward space
.I count
records.
.TP
.B bsf
Back space over
.I count
.SM EOF 
marks.
The tape is positioned on the
beginning-of-tape
side of the 
.SM EOF 
mark.
.TP
.B bsr
Back space
.I count
records.
.TP
.B nbsf
Back space
.I count
files.  The tape is positioned on the first block of the file.
This is equivalent to
.I count+1
.BR bsf 's 
followed by one 
.BR fsf .
.TP
.B asf
Absolute space to 
.I count
file number.  This is equivalent to a
.B rewind
followed by a
.B fsf
.I count.
.LP
For the following commands,
.I count
is ignored:
.TP 13
.B eom
Space to the end of recorded media on the tape.
This is useful for appending files onto previously written tapes.
.TP
.B rewind
Rewind the tape.
.TP
.BR offline , " rewoffl"
Rewind the tape and, if appropriate, take the drive unit 
off-line by unloading the tape.
.TP
.B status
Print status information about the tape unit.
.TP
.BR retension
Rewind the cartridge tape completely, then wind it forward
to the end of the reel
and back to beginning-of-tape
to smooth out
tape tension.
.TP
.BR erase
Erase the entire tape.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/rmt*
magnetic tape interface
.TP
.B /dev/rar*
Archive cartridge tape interface
.TP
.B /dev/rst* 
.SM SCSI
tape interface
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ar (4S), 
.BR mtio (4), 
.BR st (4S), 
.BR tm (4S), 
.BR xt (4S)
.BR environ (5V)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Not all devices support all options.
Some options are hardware-dependent.
Refer to the corresponding device manual page.
.br
.ne 5

.SH WARNINGS
.LP
The 
.B bsf 
option for 
.SM SCSI 
tape in SunOS 4.0.3 is incompatible
with this release and releases prior to 4.0.3.
