.TH MV 1 "23 September 1985"
.\" @(#)mv.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.SH NAME
mv \- move or rename files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mv
[
.B \-
]
[
.B \-f\|i
]
.I filename1
.I filename2
.br
.B mv
[
.B \-
]
[
.B \-f\|i
]
.I directory1
.I directory2
.br
.B mv
[
.B \-
]
[
.B \-f\|i
]
.I filename
\&.\|.\|.
.I directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "mv command"  ""  "\fLmv\fP \(em move or rename files or directory"
.IX  "move file"  ""  "move file \(em \fLmv\fP"
.IX  "move directory"  ""  "move directory \(em \fLmv\fP"
.IX  "rename file"  ""  "rename file \(em \fLmv\fP"
.IX  "rename directory"  ""  "rename directory \(em \fLmv\fP"
.IX  "change"  "name of file or directory \(em \fLmv\fP"
.IX  file  rename  ""  "rename \(em \fLmv\fP"
.IX  directory  rename  ""  "rename \(em \fLmv\fP"
.IX  file  move  ""  "move \(em \fLmv\fP"
.IX  directory  move  ""  "move \(em \fLmv\fP"
.IX  file  "change name of"  ""  "change name of \(em \fLmv\fP"
.IX  directory  "change name of"  ""  "change name of \(em \fLmv\fP"
.LP
.B mv
moves files and directories around in the file
system.  A side effect of
.B mv
is to rename a file or directory.  The
three major forms of
.B mv
are shown in the synopsis above.
.LP
The first form of
.B mv
moves (changes the name of)
.I filename1
to
.IR filename2 .
If
.I filename2
already exists, it is removed before
.I filename1
is moved.  If
\fIfilename2\fP has a mode which forbids writing,
.B mv
prints the mode (see
.BR chmod (2V))
and reads the standard input to obtain a line;
if the line begins with
.BR y ,
the move takes place, otherwise
.B mv
exits.
.LP
The second form of
.B mv
moves (changes the name of)
.I directory1
to
.IR directory2 ,
.I only
if
.I directory2
does not already exist \(em if it
does, the third form applies.
.LP
The third form of
.B mv
moves one or more
.IR filename s
(may also be directories)
with their original names, into the last
.I directory
in the list.
.LP
.B mv
refuses to move a file or directory onto
itself.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-
Interpret all the following arguments to
.B mv
as file names.  This allows file names starting with minus.
.TP
.B \-f
Force. Override any mode restrictions and the
.B \-i
option.  The
.B \-f
option also suppresses any warning messages about modes
which would potentially restrict overwriting.
.TP
.B \-i
Interactive mode.
.B mv
displays the name of the file or directory
followed by a question mark whenever a move
would replace an existing file
or directory.  If you type
a line starting with
.BR y ,
.B mv
moves the specified file or
directory, otherwise
.B mv
does nothing with that file or directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cp (1),
.BR ln (1V),
.BR chmod (2V),
.BR rename (2V)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 12
.BI "mv: " pathname ": rename: Permission denied"
Attempted to move 
.I pathname
into a directory that did not have write permission.
.SH BUGS
.LP
If
.I filename1
and
.I filename2
are on different file systems, then
.B mv
must copy the file and delete the original.
In this case the owner name becomes that
of the copying process and any
linking relationship with other files is lost.
.LP
Modification times may be different than expected when
.B mv
must copy the file's data, rather than simply updating a
directory entry.
.LP
.B mv
will not move a directory from one file system to another.
Use
.BR cp (1)
instead.
