.\" @(#)newgrp.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2
.TH NEWGRP 1 "16 November 1987"
.SH NAME
newgrp \- log in to a new group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B newgrp
[
.B \-
] [
.B group
]
.IX  "newgrp command"  "" "\fLnewgrp\fP \(em change group ID of user"
.IX  change  "group ID of user \(em \fLnewgrp\fR"
.IX  "group ID"  "\fLnewgrp\fR \(em change group ID of user"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B newgrp
changes a user's group identification.  Only the group-\s-1ID\s0 is changed;
the user remains a member of all groups previously established by
.B setgroups
(see
.BR getgroups (2V)).
The user remains logged in
and the current directory is unchanged,
but the group-\s-1ID\s0 of newly-created files will be
set to the new effective group-\s-1ID\s0 (see
.BR open (2V)).
The user is always given a new shell, replacing the current shell,
regardless of whether 
.B newgrp
terminated successfully or
due to an error condition (such as an unknown group).
.LP
Exported variables retain their values after invoking
.BR newgrp ;
however, all unexported variables are either reset to their
default value or set to null.
System variables (such as
.BR \s-1HOME\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LOGNAME\s0 ,
.BR \s-1PATH\s0 ,
.BR \s-1SHELL\s0 ,
.BR \s-1TERM\s0 ,
and
.BR \s-1USER\s0 ),
unless exported by the system
or explicitly exported by
the user, are reset to default values.
Note: the shell command
.B export
(see
.BR sh (1))
is the method to export variables, while the C shell command
.B setenv
(see
.BR csh (1))
implicitly exports its argument.
.LP
With no arguments,
.B newgrp
changes the group identification back to
the group specified in the user's password file entry.
.LP
If the first argument to
.B newgrp
is a
.RB ` \- ',
the environment is changed to what would be expected if the
user actually logged in again.
.LP
A password is demanded if the group has
a password and the user does not,
or if the group has a password and the user is not listed
in
.B /etc/group
as being
a member of that group.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/group
system group file
.TP
.B /etc/passwd
system password file
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR csh (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR su (1V),
.BR open (2V),
.BR getgroups (2V),
.BR initgroups (3),
.BR environ (5V),
.BR group (5),
.BR passwd (5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
For consistency with
.B login
naming rules (which do not allow 8-bit file names),
group identifications cannot contain 8-bit characters.
See
.BR login (1)
for explanations about why
.B login
is not 8-bit clean.
.SH BUGS
.LP
There is no convenient way to enter a password into
.BR /etc/group .
Use of group passwords is not encouraged, because,
by their very nature, they encourage poor security practices.
Group passwords may disappear in the future.
