.\" @(#)nl.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2 6.2
.TH NL 1V "17 September 1989"
.SH NAME
nl \- line numbering filter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nl
[
.B \-p
] [
.BI\-h type
] [
.BI \-b type
] [
.BI \-f t\|ype
] [
.BI \-v start
] [
.BI \-i incr
] [
.BI \-l num
] [
.BI \-s sep
] [
.BI \-w width
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.BI \-n fmt
] [
.BI \-d delim
]
.I filename
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX nl "" "\fLnl\fR \(em number lines"
.IX "line numbering \(em \fLnl\fR"
.B nl
reads lines from
.I filename
(or the standard input), numbers them according to the options in
effect, and sends its output to the standard output.
.LP
.B nl
views the text it reads in terms of logical pages.
Line numbering is normally reset at the start of each page.
A logical page is composed of header, body and footer sections.
The start of each page section is signaled by input
lines containing section delimiters only:
.RS
.IP
.nf
.I Start of file
.sp
.B \e:\e:\e:
.I header
.sp
.B \e:\e:
.I body
.sp
.B \e:
.I footer
.fi
.RE
.LP
Empty sections are valid.
Different line-numbering options are available within
each section.  The default scheme is no numbering for headers and
footers.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP .75i
.B \-p
Do not restart numbering at logical page delimiters.
.TP
.BI \-b type
Specify which logical page body lines are to be numbered.
.I type
is one of:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B a
number all lines
.TP
.B t
number lines with printable text only (the default)
.TP
.B n
no line numbering
.TP
.BI p " rexp"
number only lines that contain the regular expression
.I rexp
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BI \-h type
Same as
.BI \-b type
except for the header.
The default
.I type
for the logical page header is
.B n
(no lines numbered).
.TP
.BI \-f t\|ype
Same as
.BI \-b type
except for the footer.
The default for logical page footer is
.B n
(no lines numbered).
.TP
.BI \-v start
.I start
is the initial value used to number logical page lines.
The default is 1.
.TP
.BI \-i incr
.I incr
is the increment by which to number logical page lines.
The default is 1.
.TP
.BI \-s sep
.I sep
is the character(s) used to separate the line number from the
corresponding text line.  The default is a
.SM TAB.
.TP
.BI \-w width
.I width
is the number of characters to be used for the line-number field.
The default is 6.
.TP
.BI \-n fmt
.B fmt
is the line numbering format.
Recognized values are:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B rn
right justified, leading zeroes suppressed (the default)
.TP
.B ln
left justified, leading zeroes suppressed
.TP
.B rz
right justified, leading zeroes kept
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BI \-l num
.I num
is the number of blank lines to be considered as one.
For example,
.B \-l2
results in only the second adjacent blank
being numbered (if the appropriate
.BR \-ha ,
.BR \-ba ,
and/or
.B \-fa
option is set).
The default is 1.
.TP
.BI \-d xx
The delimiter characters specifying the start of a logical page
section may be changed from the default characters (\e:) to
two user-specified characters.
If only one character is entered,
the second character remains the default character (:).
No space should appear between the
.B \-d
and the delimiter characters.
To enter a backslash, use two backslashes.
.SH EXAMPLE
The command:
.IP
.BI "nl \-v10 \-i10 \-d!+ " filename1
.LP
will number
.I filename1
starting at line number 10 with an increment of ten.
The logical page delimiters are
.BR !+ .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pr (1V)
