.\" @(#)nm.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH NM 1 "7 September 1989"
.SH NAME
nm \- print symbol name list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nm
[
.B \-gnoprsua
]
[
.RI [ " filename " "] .\|.\|."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "nm command"  ""  "\fLnm\fP \(em display name list"
.IX  display "name list of object file or library \(em \fLnm\fP"
.IX  "programming tools"  nm  ""  "\fLnm\fP \(em display name list"
.B nm
prints the name list (symbol table) of each object
.I filename
in the argument list.
If an argument is
an archive, a listing for each object
file in the archive will be produced.
If no
.I filename
is given, the symbols in
.B a.out
are listed.
.SS Output Format
.LP
Each symbol name is preceded by its value (blanks if undefined)
and one of the letters:
.TP
.B A
absolute
.TP
.B B
bss segment symbol
.TP
.B C
common symbol
.TP
.B D
data segment symbol
.TP
.B f
filename
.TP
.B t
a static function symbol
.TP
.B  T
text segment symbol
.TP
.B U
undefined
.TP
.B \-
debug, giving symbol table entries (see
.B \-a
below)
.LP
The type letter is upper case if the symbol is external, and
lower case if it is local.  The output is sorted alphabetically.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B  \-a
Print all symbols.
.TP
.B  \-g
Print only global (external) symbols.
.TP
.B \-n
Sort numerically rather than alphabetically.
.TP
.B  \-o
Prepend file or archive element name to
each output line rather than only once.
.TP
.B  \-p
Do not sort; print in symbol-table order.
.TP
.B  \-r
Sort in reverse order.
.TP
.B  \-s
Sort according to the size of the external
symbol (computed from the difference between the
value of the symbol and the value of the symbol
with the next higher value).
This difference is the value printed.
.TP
.B  \-u
Print only undefined symbols.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
.B example% nm
.LP
prints the symbol list of the file named
.BR  a.out ,
the default output file for the
.BR C ,
compiler.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ar (1V),
.BR as (1),
.BR cc (1V),
.BR ld (1),
.BR tmpnam (3S),
.BR a.out (5),
.BR ar (5),
.BR coff (5)
.SH BUGS
.LP
To see what is in a shared library, run
.B nm
on the
.I static
.RB ( .a )
version.
.SH "Sun386i BUGS"
When all the symbols are printed, they must be printed in the order they
appear in the symbol table in order to preserve scoping information.
Therefore, the
.B \-v
and
.B \-n
options should be used only in conjunction with the
.B \-e 
option.
