.\" @(#)nroff.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH NROFF 1 "22 December 1987"
.SH NAME
nroff \- format documents for display or line-printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nroff
[
.B \-ehig
]
[
.BI \-m name
] [
.BI \-n N
] [
.BI \-o pagelist
] [
.BI \-r aN
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-s N
] [
.BI \-T name 
]

.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I Text
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "nroff command"  ""  "\fLnroff\fP \(em document formatter"
.IX  "document production"  nroff  ""  "\fLnroff\fP \(em document formatter"
.LP
.B nroff
formats text in the named
.I files
for
typewriter-like
devices.  See also
.BR troff (1).
The full capabilities of
.B nroff
and
.B troff
are described in
.TX DOCS .
.LP
If no
.I file
argument is present,
.B nroff
reads the standard input.
An argument consisting of a 
.RB ` \- '
is taken to be a file name corresponding to the standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options may appear in any order so long as they appear
.I before
the files.
.TP
.B \-e
Produce equally-spaced words in adjusted
lines, using full terminal resolution.
.TP
.B \-h
Use output
.SM TAB
characters during horizontal spacing
to speed output and reduce output character count.
.SM TAB 
settings are assumed to be every 8 nominal character widths.
.TP
.B \-i
Read the standard input after the input files are exhausted.
.TP
.B \-q
Invoke the simultaneous input-output mode of the
.B rd
request.
.TP
.BI \-m name
Prepend the macro file
.B /usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.name
to the input files.
.TP
.BI \-n N
Number first generated page
.IR N .
.TP
.BI \-o pagelist
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in the comma-separated
.I list
of numbers and ranges.  A
range
.IB N \- M
means pages
.I N
through
.IR M ;
an initial
.I \-N
means from the beginning to page
.IR N ;
and a final
.IR N \-
means from
.I N
to the end.
.TP
.BI \-r aN
Set register
.I a
(one-character) to
.IR N .
.TP
.BI \-s N
Stop every
.IR N " pages."
.B nroff
will halt prior to every
.I N
pages (default
.IR N =1)
to allow paper loading or changing, and will
resume upon receipt of a
.SM NEWLINE\s0.
.TP
.BI \-T name
Prepare output for a device of the specified
.IR name .
Known
.IR name s
are:
.RS
.sp .5
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B 37
Teletype Corporation Model 37 terminal \(em this is the default.
.TP
.BR crt "\ \ |\ \ " lpr "\ \ |\ \ " tn300
.SM GE
TermiNet\ 300, or any line printer or terminal without half-line
capability.
.TP
.B 300
.SM DASI\s0-300.
.TP
.B 300-12
.SM DASI\s0-300 \(em
12-pitch.
.TP
.BR 300S "\ \ |\ \ " 302 "\ \ |\ \ " dtc
.SM DASI\s0-300S.
.TP
.BR 300S-12 "\ \ |\ \ " 302-12 "\ \ |\ \ " dtc12
.SM DASI\s0-300S.
.TP
.B 382
.SM DASI\s0-382
(fancy
.SM DTC
382).
.TP
.B 382-12
.SM DASI\s0-82  (fancy
.SM DTC
382 \(em
12-pitch).
.TP
.BR 450 "\ \ |\ \ " ipsi
.SM DASI\s0-450 (Diablo
Hyterm).
.TP
.BR 450-12 "\ \ |\ \ " ipsi12
.SM DASI\s0-450 (Diablo Hyterm) \(em
12-pitch.
.TP
.B 450-12-8
.SM DASI\s0-450 (Diablo Hyterm) \(em 12-pitch and 8
lines-per-inch.
.TP
.B 450X
.SM DASI\s0-450X (Diablo
Hyterm).
.TP
.B 832
.SM AJ\s0
832.
.TP
.B 833
.SM AJ\s0
833.
.TP
.B 832-12
.SM AJ\s0
832 \(em
12-pitch.
.TP
.B 833-12
.SM AJ\s0
833 \(em
12-pitch.
.TP
.B epson
Epson FX80.
.TP
.B itoh
.SM C:ITOH\s0
Prowriter.
.TP
.B itoh-12
.SM C:ITOH\s0
Prowriter \(em
12-pitch.
.TP
.B nec	
.SM NEC 55?0\s0 or
.SM NEC 77?0\s0
Spinwriter.
.TP
.B nec12
.SM NEC 55?0\s0 or
.SM NEC 77?0\s0
Spinwriter \(em 12-pitch.
.TP
.B nec-t
.SM NEC 55?0/77?0\s0
Spinwriter \(em Tech-Math/Times-Romanthimble.
.TP
.B qume
Qume
Sprint \(em 5 or9.
.TP
.B qume12
Qume
Sprint \(em 5 or 9,12-pitch.
.TP
.B xerox
Xerox 17?0 or Diablo 16?0.
.TP
.B xerox12
Xerox 17?0 or
Diablo 16?0 \(em
12-pitch.
.TP
.B x-ecs
Xerox/Diablo 1730/630 \(em Extended Character
Set.
.br
.ne 8
.TP
.B x-ecs12
Xerox/Diablo 1730/630 \(em Extended Character Set,
12-pitch.
.TP
.B man
Dumb terminal, used for online man pages.
.RE
.PD
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
The following command:
.IP
.B example% nroff \-s4 \-me users.guide
.LP
formats
.B users.guide
using the
.B \-me
macro package, and stopping every 4 pages.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 28
.B /tmp/ta*
temporary file
.TP
.B /usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.*
standard macro files
.TP
.B /usr/share/lib/term/*
terminal driving tables for
.B nroff
.TP
.B /usr/share/lib/term/\s-1README\s0
index to terminal description files
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR checknr (1),
.BR col (1V),
.BR eqn (1),
.BR tbl (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR term (5),
.BR man (7),
.BR me (7),
.BR ms (7)
.LP
.TX DOCS
.SH NOTES
.B nroff
is not 8-bit clean because
making
.B nroff
8-bit clean would require rewriting the
.B nroff
internals and filters.
Also, some 
.B nroff
syntax is based on
.SM ASCII
only and does not lend itself to
8-bit character sequences.
