.\" @(#)objdump.1	1.1 92/07/30; from System V
.TH OBJDUMP 1 "19 February 1988"
.SH NAME
objdump \- dump selected parts of a COFF object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B objdump
[
.I option
[
.I modifier .\|.\|.
] ]
.I filename .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "objdump command" "" "\fLobjdump\fR command"  
.LP
The
.B objdump
command
dumps selected parts of each
of its object
.I filename
arguments.
This command is compatible with System V in all its options.
It will accept both object files and archives of object files.
.LP
.B objdump
command
attempts to format the information it dumps in a meaningful way,
printing certain information in character,
hex, octal or decimal representation as appropriate.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-a
Dump the archive header of each member of each archive file
argument.
.TP
.B \-g
Dump the global symbols in the symbol table of an archive.
.TP
.B \-f
Dump each file header.
.TP
.B \-o
Dump each optional header.
.TP
.B \-h
Dump section headers.
.TP
.B \-s
Dump section contents.
.TP
.B \-r
Dump relocation information.
.TP
.B \-l
Dump line number information.
.TP
.B \-t
Dump symbol table entries.
.TP
.BI \-z " name"
Dump line number entries for the named function.
.TP
.BR \-c
Dump the string table.
.TP
.B \-L
Interpret and print the contents of the
.B .lib
sections.
.SS Modifiers
The following
.I modifiers
are used in conjunction with the options
listed above.
.TP 10
.BI \-d " number
Dump the section number,
.IR number ,
or the range of sections 
starting at
.I number
and ending at the
.I number
specified by
.BR +d .
.TP
.BI +d " number
Dump sections in the range either beginning with 
first section or beginning
with section specified by
.BR \-d .
.TP
.BI \-n " name
Dump information pertaining only to the named entity.
This
.I modifier
applies to
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-s ,
.BR \-r ,
.BR \-l ,
and 
.BR \-t .
.TP
.B \-p
Suppress printing of the headers.
.TP
.BI \-t " index
Dump only the indexed symbol table entry.
The 
.B \-t
used in conjunction with
.BR +t ,
specifies a range of symbol
table entries.
.TP
.BI +t " index
Dump the symbol table entries in the range ending with the indexed entry.
The range begins at the first symbol table entry or at the entry
specified by the 
.B \-t
option.
.TP
.B \-u
Underline the name of the file for emphasis.
.TP
.B \-v
Dump information in symbolic representation rather than numeric
(e.g.,
.SB C_STATIC
instead of 
.BR \s-10X02\s+1 ).
This
.I modifier
can be used with all the above options except
.B \-s
and
.BR \-o .
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-z " name" \|,\| number
.TP
.BI \-z " name\ number
Dump line number entry or range of line numbers starting at
.I number
for the named function.
.PD
.TP
.BI \+z " number
Dump line numbers starting at either function
.IR name " or " number
specified 
by
.BR \-z,
up to
.I number
specified by
.BR +z .
.PP
White space separating an
.I option
and its
.I modifier
is optional.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ar (5),
.BR coff (5)
