.\" @(#)od.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2 16 Feb 1983
.TH OD 1V "2 October 1989"
.SH NAME
od \- octal, decimal, hexadecimal, and ascii dump
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B od
[
.BI \- format
]
.RI [ " filename " ]
[
.RB [ + ]\c
.IR offset [\c
.BR . ]\|[ b ]
.RI [ label ]
]
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/od 
.RI [ arguments ]
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "od command"  ""  "\fLod\fP \(em dump file"
.IX  file  dump  file  "dump \(em \fLod\fP"
.IX  "octal dump file"  ""  "octal dump file \(em \fLod\fP"
.IX  "decimal dump file"  ""  "decimal dump file \(em \fLod\fP"
.IX  "hexadecimal dump file"  ""  "hexadecimal dump file \(em \fLod\fP"
.IX  "ASCII dump file"  ""  "ASCII dump file \(em \fLod\fP"
.LP
.B od
displays
.IR filename ,
or its standard input, in one or more dump formats as selected by the
first argument.  If the first argument is missing,
.B \-o
(octal) is the default.
Dumping continues until an
.SM EOF\s0.
.SS Format Arguments
.LP
The meanings of the format argument characters are:
.TP 5
.B  a
Interpret bytes as characters and display them with their
.SM ASCII
names.  If the
.B p
character is given also, bytes with even parity are underlined.  If the
.B P
character is given, bytes with odd parity are underlined.
Otherwise the parity bit is ignored.
.TP 5
.B  b
Interpret bytes as unsigned octal.
.TP 5
.B  c
Interpret bytes as
.SM ASCII
characters.  Certain non-graphic characters appear as C escapes:
.SM NUL\s0=\fB\e0\fP,
.SM BACKSPACE\s0=\fB\eb\fP,
.SM FORMFEED\s0=\fB\ef\fP,
.SM NEWLINE\s0=\fB\en\fP,
.SM RETURN\s0=\fB\er\fP,
.SM TAB\s0=\fB\et\fP;
others appear as 3-digit octal numbers.
Bytes with the parity bit set are displayed in octal.
.TP 5
.B  d
Interpret (short) words as unsigned decimal.
.TP 5
.B  f
Interpret long words as floating point.
.TP 5
.B  h
Interpret (short) words as unsigned hexadecimal.
.TP 5
.B  i
Interpret (short) words as signed decimal.
.TP 5
.B  l
Interpret long words as signed decimal.
.TP 5
.B  o
Interpret (short) words as unsigned octal.
.TP 5
.BI s[ n ]
Look for strings of
.SM ASCII
graphic characters, terminated with a null byte.
.I n
specifies the minimum length string to be recognized.
By default, the minimum length is 3 characters.
.TP 5
.B v
Show all data.
By default, display lines that are identical to the last
line shown are not output, but are indicated with an
.RB ` * '
in column 1.
.TP 5
.BI w[ n ]
Specifies the number of input bytes to be interpreted and displayed
on each output line. If
.B w
is not specified, 16 bytes are read for each display line.
If
.I n
is not specified, it defaults to 32.
.TP 5
.B  x
Interpret (short) words as hexadecimal.
.LP
An upper case format character implies the long or double precision
form of the object.
.LP
The
.I offset
argument specifies the byte offset into the
file where dumping is to commence.
By default this argument is interpreted in octal.
A different radix can be
specified; if
.RB ` . '
is appended to the argument, then
.I offset
is interpreted in decimal.  If
.I offset
begins with
.B x
or
.BR 0x ,
it is interpreted in hexadecimal.  If
.B b
.RB ( B )
is appended, the offset is interpreted
as a block count, where a block is 512 (1024) bytes.  If the
.I filename
argument is omitted, the
.I offset
argument must be preceded by
.RB ` + '.
.LP
The radix of the displayed address will be the same as the radix of the
.IR offset ,
if specified; otherwise it will be octal.
.LP
.I label
will be interpreted as a pseudo-address for the first byte displayed.
It will be shown in
.B (\|)
following the file offset.  It is intended to
be used with core images to indicate the
real memory address.  The syntax for
.I label
is identical to that for
.IR offset .
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
.IX "System V commands" "\fLod\fR"
.LP
The
.B s
format interprets (short) words as
signed decimal, rather than searching for
strings; the
.B S
format searches for strings.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
The environment variables
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.B \s-1LC\s0_default
control the character classification
throughout
.BR od .
On entry to
.BR od ,
these environment variables are checked in the
following order:
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.BR \s-1LC\s0_default.
When a valid value is found,
remaining environment variables for character classification
are ignored.
For example, a new setting for
.B \s-1LANG\s0
does not override the current valid character
classification rules of
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 .
When none of the values is valid,
the shell character
classification defaults to the 
.SM POSIX.1 \*(lqC\*(rq
locale.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR adb (1),
.BR dbx (1),
.BR dbxtool (1),
.BR locale (5),
.BR iso_8859_1 (7)
.SH BUGS
.LP
A file name argument cannot start with
.RB ` + '.
A hexadecimal offset cannot be a block count.
Only one file name argument can be given.
.LP
It is an historical botch to require specification
of object, radix, and
sign representation in a single character argument.
