.\" @(#)old-syslog.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH OLD-SYSLOG 1 "31 March 1987"
.SH NAME
old-syslog \- make a system log entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/old/syslog
[
.B \-
] [
.B \-p
] [
.B \-i
.I name
] [
.BI \- level
] [
.RI message \|.\|.\|.
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "syslog command"  ""  "\fLold-syslog\fP \(em make system log entry"
.IX  make "system log entry \(em \fLold-syslog\fP"
.IX  create "system log entry \(em \fLold-syslog\fP"
.LP
Note: this program is considered to be obsolete, and will not be 
distributed or supported in future Sun releases. 
See
.BR logger (1)
to add system log entries.
.LP 
.B syslog
sends the specified message (or 
the standard input if 
.RB ` \- '
is specified)
as a system log entry to the syslog daemon.
The log entry is sent to the daemon on the machine specified by the
.I loghost 
entry in the 
.BR /etc/hosts
file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-
Each line of the standard input is sent as a log entry.
.TP
.B \-p
.B syslog
logs its process
.SM ID
in addition to the other information.
.TP
.BI \-i " name"
Specify the name to be used as the \*(lqident\*(rq for the log entry.
.TP
.BI \- level
The message will be logged at the specified level.
The level can be specified numerically, in the range 1 through 9,
or symbolically using the names specified in the include file
.B <syslog.h> 
(with the leading 
.SB LOG_ 
stripped off).
.BR syslog-\s-1HELP\s0
lists the valid symbolic level names.
Only the super-user can make log entries at levels less than or
equal to 
.BR \s-1SALERT\s0 .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /usr/etc/syslogd
syslog daemon
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR logger (1),
.BR syslog (3), 
.BR syslogd (8)
