.\" @(#)old-setkeys.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH OLD-SETKEYS 1 "1 October 1987"
.SH NAME
old-setkeys \- modify interpretation of the keyboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/old/setkeys
[
\fBreset\fR |
\fBnosunview\fR |
[ [
.B lefty
] [
.B noarrows
] ] ] [
\fBsun1\fR |
\fBsun2\fR |
.B sun3
]
.SH Sun386i SYNOPSIS
.B setkeys
[
\fBreset\fR |
\fBnosunview\fR |
[ [
.B lefty
] [
.B noarrows
] ] ] [
\fBsun1\fR |
\fBsun2\fR |
.BR sun3 |
.B sun4
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX setkeys "" "\fLsetkeys\fR \(em change keyboard layout"
.LP
.B setkeys
has been superseded by the
.B Input
category in
.BR defaultsedit (1),
and by the program
\fBinput_from_defaults\fR (1).
It is retained for backwards compatibility on Sun-2, Sun-3 and
Sun-4 systems.
.SH Sun386i DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B setkeys
changes the kernel's keyboard translation tables,
converting a keyboard to one of a number of
commonly desired configurations.
It takes an indication of the modifications
to be performed, and optionally,
the kind of keyboard attached to the user's machine.
It affects all keyboard input for the machine it is run on
(in or out of the window system)
until that effect is superseded by rebooting,
or by running
.RB ` "setkeys reset" '.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I modifications
Empty, or one of
.BR reset ,
.BR nosunview ,
or some combination of
.B lefty
and
.BR noarrows .
By default, the keyboard is set to produce
the SunView function-key codes
.RB ( Stop ,
.BR Props ,
.BR Front ,
.BR Close ,
.BR Find ,
.BR Again ,
.BR Undo ,
.BR Copy ,
.BR Paste
and
.BR Cut ;
.TX SVBG .
On Sun-2 and Sun-3 keyboards, this
is meaningless; on the Sun-1, those functions
are assigned to two columns of
the right numeric-function pad.
.TP
.B lefty
Indicate the SunView functions are to be produced from keys on
the right side of the keyboard, convenient for using the mouse in the
left hand.
.IP
On the Sun-2 and Sun-3 systems, the SunView functions are reflected to the
outside columns of the right function pad; those right-side functions
are distributed in a more complicated fashion dictated by keeping the
arrow keys together; see below.  Also, the Line Feed key, immediately
below Return, is converted to a second Control.
.IP
On the Sun-1,
.B lefty
is the same as the default, since there is no left
function pad.
.TP
.B noarrows
Reassign the keys with cursor arrows on their caps to
produce simple function codes (so they may be used with filters in the
textsw, or mapped input in the ttysw).
.TP
.B nosunview
Only valid on Sun-2 and Sun-3 keyboards,
or on a Sun-4 keyboard used with 386i architecture.
.B nosunview
is incompatible with
.BR lefty ,
.BR noarrows ,
or
.BR reset .
This option assigns new codes to keys F1 and L2 - L10,
codes that are not normally produced anywhere on the keyboard.
These codes may be selected by a
.I mapi
or
.I mapo
operation defined in a user's
.B .ttyswrc
file.
.IP
This option supports a measure of backwards compatibility to
programs that apply some other interpretation to the affected
function keys.
It allows them to access the new codes when the standard codes would
be preempted by SunView functions (for instance, in a
.BR tty (1)
subwindow).
.TP
.B reset
Incompatible with
.BR lefty ,
.BR noarrows ,
or
.BR nosunview ;
it causes the keyboard to be reset to its original interpretation.
.TP
.I "keyboard-type"
One of
.BR sun1 ,
.BR sun2 ,
or
.BR sun3 .
.B sun4
is available with 386i architecture only.
Normally, this option is omitted;
the type of keyboard attached to the
system is obtained from the kernel.
If included, the option is believed in
preference to the kernel's information.
.B setkeys
treats Sun-2 and Sun-3 keyboards
identically except when the modification is
.BR reset .
.br
.ne 5
.IP
Note: The keyboard type is not necessarily
the same as the machine type.
A Sun-1 keyboard is the
.SM VT\s0100-style
keyboard shipped with Model 100Us,
while Sun-2 and Sun-3 keyboards may be attached interchangeably
to Sun-2 and Sun-3 machines.
A Sun-3 keyboard is distinguished by its aerodynamic housing,
and the presence of Caps and Alternate keys.
.LP
Options may appear in any order, and case is not significant.  The
accompanying diagrams show the exact distribution of codes for each
combination of keyboard and arguments to setkeys.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The command
.IP
.B setkeys lefty noarrows
.LP
puts the SunView functions on the right pad of the keyboard,
replacing arrow keys by the corresponding right-function codes, and
displacing right-function codes to the left pad.
.LP
The command:
.IP
.B setkeys sun1 reset
.LP
restores a Sun-1 keyboard to its original arrangement.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR defaultsedit (1),
.BR input_from_defaults (1),
.BR kb (4M)
.LP
.TX SVBG
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B setkeys
affects the kernel's key tables, which in turn affects all users
logged in to the system.
.SH DIAGRAMS
.nf
.ft B
Sun-1,	reset:
		  ^    V    <    >
	[	standard	 ]	TF1	TF2	TF3	TF4
	[	 typing		 ]	 7	 8	 9	 -
	[	  array		 ]	 4	 5	 6	 ,
	[	   ....		 ]	 1	 2	 3	En-
					     0		 .	ter
	default / lefty:
		  ^    V    <    >
	[	standard	 ]	Again	RF1	Stop	RF2
	[	 typing		 ]	Undo	RF3	Props	RF4
	[	  array		 ]	Put	RF5	Front	RF6
	[	   ....		 ]	Get	RF7	Close	RF8
					  Delete	Find	
	default / lefty, noarrow:
		   TF1 TF2 TF3 TF4
	[	standard	 ]	Again	RF1	Stop	RF2
	[	 typing		 ]	Undo	RF3	Props	RF4
	[	  array		 ]	Put	RF5	Front	RF6
	[	   ....		 ]	Get	RF7	Close	RF8
					  Delete	Find
.ne 50
Sun-2 & Sun-3,
	reset / default:
			TF1 TF2 ...	  ]
	Stop	Again	[     standard	  ]	RF1	RF2	RF3
	Props	Undo	[      typing	  ]	RF4	RF5	RF6
	Front	Put	[       array	  ]	RF7	 ^	RF9
	Close	Get	[		Retn	 <	RF11	 >
	Find	Delete	[		 LF	RF13	 V	RF15
	noarrows (only):
			TF1 TF2 ...	  ]
	Stop	Again	[     standard	  ]	RF1	RF2	RF3
	Props	Undo	[      typing	  ]	RF4	RF5	RF6
	Front	Put	[       array	  ]	RF7	RF8	RF9
	Close	Get	[		Retn	RF10	RF11	RF12
	Find	Delete	[		 LF	RF13	RF14	RF15
	lefty:
			TF1 TF2 ...	  ]
	Stop	RF1	[     standard	  ]	Again	 <	Stop
	RF6	RF4	[      typing	  ]	Undo	 >	Props
	RF9	RF7	[       array	  ]	Put	 ^	Front
	RF12	RF10	[		Retn	Get	RF11	Close
	RF15	RF13	[		Ctrl	Delete	 V	Find
	lefty, noarrows
			TF1 TF2 ...	  ]
	Stop	RF1	[     standard	  ]	Again	RF2	Stop
	RF6	RF4	[      typing	  ]	Undo	RF5	Props
	RF9	RF7	[       array	  ]	Put	RF8	Front
	RF12	RF10	[		Ret	Get	RF11	Close
	RF15	RF13	[		Ctrl	Delete	RF14	Find
	nosunview:
			LF11 TF2 ...	  ]
	Stop	TF11	[     standard	  ]	RF1	RF2	RF3
	LF12	TF12	[      typing	  ]	RF4	RF5	RF6
	LF13	TF13	[       array	  ]	RF7	 ^	RF9
	LF14	TF14	[		Ret	 <	RF11	 >
	LF15	TF15	[		LF	RF13	 V	RF15
.fi
