.\" @(#)old-compact.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH OLD-COMPACT 1 "24 September 1987"
.SH NAME
old-compact, old-uncompact, old-ccat \- compress and uncompress files, and cat them
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/old/compact
[
.IR filename .\|.\|.
]
.LP
.B uncompact
[
.IR filename .\|.\|.
]
.LP
.B ccat
[
.IR filename .\|.\|.
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  compact  ""  "\fLcompact\fP \(em compress files"
.IX  uncompact  ""  "\fLuncompact\fP \(em uncompress files"
.IX  ccat  ""  "\fLccat\fP \(em extract files compressed with \fLcompact\fR"
.IX  files  "compact command"  files  "\fLcompact\fP \(em compress files"
.IX  files  "uncompact command"  files  "\fLuncompact\fP \(em uncompress files"
.IX  files  "ccat command"  files  "\fLccat\fP \(em extract files compressed with \fLcompact\fR"
.LP
.B Note:
This program is considered to be obsolete, and will not be
distributed or supported in future Sun releases.
.LP
.B compact
compresses the named files using an
adaptive Huffman code.  If no file
names are given, the standard input is
compacted to the standard output.
.B compact
operates as an on-line algorithm.  Each time a byte is read,
it is encoded immediately according to the current prefix code.
This code is an optimal Huffman code for the set of frequencies seen so far.
It is unnecessary to prepend a decoding tree to the compressed file
since the encoder and the decoder start in the same state and stay
synchronized.  Furthermore,
.B compact
and
.B uncompact
can operate as filters.  In particular:
.IP
.RB \&.\|.\|.\| " | compact | uncompact | " .\|.\|.
.LP
operates as a (very slow) no-op.
.LP
When an argument
.B file
is given, it is compacted and the resulting file is placed in
.BR file.C ;
.B file
is removed.  The first two bytes of the compacted file code the
fact that the file is compacted.  This code is used to prohibit recompaction.
.LP
The amount of compression to be expected depends on the type of file being
compressed.  Typical values of compression are:
Text (38%), Pascal Source (43%), C Source (36%) and Binary (19%).
These values are the percentages of file bytes reduced.
.LP
.B uncompact
restores the original file from a file called
.IB file .C
which was compressed by
.B compact.
If no file names are given, the standard input is uncompacted to
the standard output.
.LP
.B ccat
cats the original file from a file compressed by
.B compact,
without uncompressing the file.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B *.C
compacted file created by compact, removed by uncompact
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Gallager, Robert G.,
.IR "Variations on a Theme of Huffman" ,
.I "I.E.E.E.  Transactions on Information Theory,"
vol. IT-24, no. 6, November 1978, pp. 668 - 674.
