.\" @(#)on.1c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH ON 1C "8 September 1988"
.SH NAME
on \- execute a command on a remote system, but with the local environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B on
[
.B \-i
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-n
]
.I host
.I command
[
.I argument
]
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "on command"  ""  "\fLon\fP \(em remote command execution"
.IX  "remote command execution"  ""  "remote command execution \(em \fLon\fP"
.LP
The
.B on
program is used to execute commands on another system, in an
environment similar to that invoking the program.
All environment variables are passed, and the current working
directory is preserved.
To preserve the working directory, the working file system
must be either already mounted on the host or be exported to it.
Relative path names will only work if they are within the
current file system; absolute path names may cause problems.
.LP
The standard input is connected to the
standard input of the remote command,
and the standard output and the standard error
from the remote command
are sent to the corresponding files for the
.B on
command.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i
Interactive mode. Use remote echoing and
special character processing.
This option is needed for programs
that expect to be talking to a terminal.
All terminal modes and window size changes are propagated.
.TP
.B \-d
Debug mode. Print out some messages as work is being done.
.TP
.B \-n
No Input. This option causes the remote
program to get
.SM EOF
when it reads from the standard input,
instead of passing the standard input from
the standard input of the
.B on
program.
For example,
.B \-n
is necessary when running commands in the background
with job control.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chkey (1),
.BR publickey (5),
.BR exports (5),
.BR rexd (8C)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 20
.B unknown host
Host name not found.
.TP
.B cannot connect to server
Host down or not running the server.
.TP
.B can't find
Problem finding the working directory.
.TP
.B can't locate mount point
Problem finding current file system.
.B RPC: Authentication error 
The server requires des authentication and you 
do not have a secret key registered with keyserv.
Perhaps you logged in without a password.
Try to keylogin.  If that fails try to
set your publickey with chkey.
.LP
Other error messages may be passed back from the server.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The SunView window system can get confused
by the environment variables.
.LP
When the working directory is remote mounted over
.SM NFS\s0,
a
.B ^Z
hangs the window.
.LP
Root cannot use
.BR on .
