.\" @(#)organizer.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH ORGANIZER 1 "19 February 1988"
.SH NAME
organizer \- file and directory manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B organizer
[
.BI \-A " time"
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "organizer command"  ""  "\fLorganizer\fP \(em get organizer"
.IX "commands"  "organizer command"  ""  "\fLorganizer\fP "
.B organizer
is a SunView application for viewing and manipulating files and
directories.
It performs many of the functions of the
.BR ls (1V), 
.BR cd (1), 
.BR chmod (1V),
.BR cp (1),  
.BR mv (1), 
.BR mkdir (1), 
.BR rmdir (see
.BR rm (1)),  
and 
.BR dump (8)
.\".BR restore (8)
commands, and with a visual interface.
.LP
At any given time, the 
.B organizer
window normally shows the files and directories
in a single directory,  representing each file or directory with an 
appropriate illustrated icon.  The illustration indicates whether a file
is a directory, contains text, 
is an executable program, or optionally a user-defined file type.  
.LP
When
.B organizer
is switched into Map mode, the icons are arranged to indicate the hierarchy of
files and directories.  Double clicking on a directory icon shows the contents
of that directory in a new column.
.LP
Several display modes are available, and can be set for an individual 
.B organizer
window or for all 
.B organizer
windows.  You can select whether hidden files are shown,
whether just the name, the name and information, or name and
icon are shown for each file and directory, and how the contents are sorted.
.LP
Text files can be \(lqedited\(rq by double clicking on the file's icon.
The contents
of the file are then shown and can be edited in a separate text editor window.
In the
.B .orgrc
file you can specify the \s-1EXECUTE\s0, \s-1EDIT\s0, and \s-1PRINT\s0
applications for your own user-defined file types.
.LP
You can move down through the directory hierarchy by
double clicking on a directory icon, and up by double clicking on the
parent directory name on the ancestor list in the upper left
corner of the
.B organizer
panel.
.LP
Copying, moving, and deleting require you to select one or more
files.  To select a file, click the left button on it (do not double
click \(em this will open the file).  To select additional
files to be operated on, click the middle button on each additional
file.
.LP
Copying and moving operations require a destination directory.  After
the files are selected, change directories to the desired destination as 
described above, and then \(lqdrop\(rq the files with the Drop button on the 
command panel.  If the copy involves overwriting an identically named
file,  an alert will allow you to confirm that you want to overwrite 
the file.  If you copy a file and then \(lqdrop\(rq it in the same directory,
.B organizer
will prepend
.B copy_of_
to the file name of the new file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-A " time"
Sets autoclose for
.I time
minutes.  If
.B organizer
is not used for
.I time
minutes, it closes automatically.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/include/images/*
file and directory icons
.TP
.B ~/.orgrc
.TP
.B .\|.\|/.DeletedOrgFiles
.B organizer
creates this directory to store files so you can undo the last thing you did,
for example, deleting files.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkdir (1),
.BR mv (1),
.BR rm (1),
.BR orgrc (5),
.BR restore (8)
.LP
.I Sun386i User's Guide
.br
.I Sun386i Advanced Skills
