.\" @(#)overview.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH OVERVIEW 1 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
overview \- run a program from SunView that takes over the screen
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B overview
[
.B \-w
] [
.I generic_tool_options
]
.I program_name
[
.I arguments
] .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.TX SVBG 
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX overview "" "\fLoverview\fR \(em take over screen w/ graphics"
.LP
Bitmap graphics based programs that are not SunView based
can be run from SunView using
.BR overview .
.B overview
shows an
icon in SunView when
.B overview
is brought up iconic
.RB ( \-Wi
generic tool option;
see
.BR sunview (1))
or when the program being run by
.B overview
is suspended
(for example, using
\s-1CTRL\s0-Z).
Opening the
.B overview
icon, or starting
.B overview
non-iconic, starts
the program named on the command line.
.B overview
suppresses SunView so
that SunView window applications will not interfere with the program's
display output or input devices.
.LP
.B overview
runs programs that fit the following profile:
.TP 25
.I own display
The program needs to own the bits on the screen.
It does not use the
.I sunview
library
to arbitrate the use of the display and input devices between
processes.
.TP
.IB "keyboard input from " stdin
The program takes keyboard input from
.I stdin
directly.
.TP
.IB "mouse input from " /dev/mouse
The program takes locator input from the mouse directly.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP
.B \-w
This option is
used to specify that the program being run creates its own SunWindows
window in order to receive the serialized input stream from the keyboard
and mouse that is provided by the SunWindows kernel driver.
\fB\-w\fP tells
.B overview
to not convert SunWindows input
into
\s-1ASCII\s0
which is then sent to the program being run under
.B overview
via a pty.
X and NeWS are programs that fall in this category
(as of Dec 86.
This is subject to change in the future.)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sunview (1)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Users of
.B overview
on a Sun-3/110 should be aware of the impact
of plane groups on pre-3.2
applications.  You cannot successfully run pre-3.2 applications under
.B overview
if
.B overview
itself is running in the color
buffer.  If you start
.B overview
so that it is not running in the
overlay plane, then the enable plane is not be properly set up for
viewing the application.  This means that you cannot run
.B overview
with the
.B \-Wf
or
.B \-Wb
generic tool arguments.  Also, you cannot run
.B overview
on a desktop created by
.B sunview
using the
.B -8bit_color_only
option.
