.\" @(#)pack.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2 6.2
.TH PACK 1V "17 September 1989"
.SH NAME
pack, pcat, unpack \- compress and expand files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pack
[
.B \-
] [
.B \-f
]
.IR filename .\|.\|.
.LP
.B pcat
.IR filename .\|.\|.
.LP
.B unpack
.IR filename .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  pack  ""  "\fLpack\fP \(em pack files"
.IX  unpack  ""  "\fLunpack\fP \(em unpack files"
.IX  pcat  ""  "\fLpcat\fP \(em pack files"
.IX  files  "pack command"  files  "\fLpack\fP \(em pack files"
.IX  files  "unpack command"  files "\fLunpack\fP \(em unpack files"
.IX  files  "pcat command"  files  "\fLpcat\fP \(em pack files"
.B pack
attempts to store the specified files in a packed form using Huffman
(minimum redundancy) codes on a byte-by-byte basis.
Wherever possible (and useful), each input file
.I filename
is replaced by a packed file
.IB filename .z
with the same access modes, access and modified
dates, and owner as those of
.IR filename .
If
.B pack
is successful,
.I filename
will be removed.
.LP
Packed files can be restored to their original form using
.B unpack
or
.BR pcat .
.LP
The amount of compression obtained depends on the size of the
input file and the frequency distribution of its characters.
.LP
Because a decoding tree forms the first part of each
.B .z
file, it is usually not worthwhile
to pack files smaller than three blocks unless the distribution
of characters is very skewed.
This may occur with printer plots or pictures.
.LP
Typically, large text-files are reduced
to 60-75% of their original size.
Load modules, which use a larger character set and have a more
uniform distribution of characters, show little compression.  Their
packed versions come in at about 90% of the original size.
.LP
No packing will occur if:
.PD 0
.IP
the file appears to be already packed
.IP
the file name has more than 12 characters
.IP
the file has links
.IP
the file is a directory
.IP
the file cannot be opened
.IP
no disk storage blocks will be saved by packing
.IP
a file called
.IB name .z
already exists
.IP
the
.B .z
file cannot be created
.IP
an I/O error occurred during processing
.PD
.LP
The last segment of the filename must contain no more than 12
characters to allow space for the appended
.B .z
extension.
Directories cannot be packed.
.LP
.B pcat
does for packed files what
.BR cat (1V)
does for ordinary files,
except that
.B pcat
cannot be used as a filter.
The specified files are unpacked and written to the standard output.
To view a packed file named
.IB name .z
use:
.IP
.BI pcat " filename" .z
.LP
or just:
.IP
.BI pcat " filename"
.LP
To make an unpacked copy without destroying the packed version, use
.IP
.BI  pcat " filename" > " newname"
.br
.ne 8
.LP
Failure may occur if:
.PD 0
.IP
the filename (exclusive of the
.BR .z )
has more than 12 characters;
.IP
the file cannot be opened;
.IP
the file does not appear to be the output of
.BR pack .
.PD
.LP
.B unpack
expands files created by
.BR pack .
For each file
.I filename
specified in the command, a search is made for a file called
.IB filename .z
(or just
.IR filename ,
if
.I filename
ends in
.BR .z ).
If this file appears to be a packed, it is replaced by
its expanded version.  The new file has the
.B .z
suffix stripped from its name, and has the same access modes,
access and modification dates, and owner as those of the packed file.
Failure may occur for the same reasons that it may in
.BR pcat ,
as well as for the following:
.TP 3
\(bu
a file with the \*(lqunpacked\*(rq name already exists
.TP 3
\(bu
the unpacked file cannot be created.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-
Print compression statistics for the following
filename or names on the standard output.
Subsequent
.RB ` \- 's
between filenames toggle statistics off and on.
.TP
.B \-f
Force packing of
.IR filename .
This is useful for causing an entire directory to be packed,
even if some of the files will not benefit.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B pack
returns the number of files that it failed to compress.
.LP
.B pcat
returns the number of files it was unable to unpack.
.LP
.B unpack
returns the number of files it was unable to unpack.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cat (1V)
