.\" @(#)passwd.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH PASSWD 1 "12 June 1988"
.SH NAME
passwd, chfn, chsh \- change local or NIS password information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B passwd
[
.B \-l \||\| \-y
] 
[
.B \-afs
]
[
.B \-d
[
.I username
] ]
[
.B \-e
.I username
]
.if n .ti +.5n
[
.B \-F
.I filename
]
[
.B \-n
.I numdays username
]
.if t .ti +.5i
.if n .ti +.5n
[
.B \-x
.I numdays username
]
[
.I username
]
.LP
.B chfn
[
.B \-l \||\| \-y
] 
[
.B \-f
]
[
.B \-F
.I filename
] [
.I username
]
.LP
.B chsh
[
.B \-l \||\| \-y
] 
[
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-F
.I filename
] [
.I username
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "passwd command"  ""  "\fLpasswd\fP \(em change login password"
.IX  password  "change login"  ""  "change login \(em \fLpasswd\fP"
.IX  "change" "login password \(em \fLpasswd\fP"
.IX  login  "change password"  ""  "change password \(em \fLpasswd\fP"
.IX  "login password"  "change"  ""  "change password \(em \fLpasswd\fP"
.LP
.B passwd
changes (or installs) a password, login shell
.RB ( \-s
option), or full name
.RB ( \-f
option) associated with the user
.I username
(your own by default).
.B chsh
is equivalent to
.B passwd
with the
.B \-s
option, and
.B chfn
is equivalent to
.B passwd
with the
.B \-f
option.
.LP
Use
.RB ` "passwd \-y" '
or
.BR yppasswd (1)
to change your password in the
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0).
This will not affect your local password,
or your password on any remote
machines on which you have accounts.
.B passwd
calls
.B yppasswd
automatically if you do not have an entry in the local passwd file,
and the 
.B \-l
option is not specified.
.LP
When changing a password,
.B passwd
prompts for the old password and then for the new one.
You must supply both, and the new password must be typed twice to
forestall mistakes.
.LP
If password aging is enabled, the first time an ordinary user enters the
new password
.B passwd
checks to see if the old password has \*(lqaged\*(rq sufficiently.
Password \*(lqaging\*(rq is the amount of time (usually a certain number of days)
that must elapse between password changes.
If \*(lqaging\*(rq is insufficient the new password is rejected and
.B passwd
terminates.
.LP
New passwords should be at least five characters long, if they
combine upper-case and lower-case letters, or at least six characters
long if in monocase.  Users that persist in entering shorter passwords
are compromising their own security. The number of significant
characters in a password is eight, although longer passwords
will be accepted.
.LP
Only the owner of the name or the super-user may change a password;
the owner must prove he knows the old password.
The super-user can change
any password and is not forced to comply with password aging requirements.
.LP
When changing a login shell,
.B passwd
displays the current login shell and then prompts
for the new one.
The new login shell must be one of the approved shells
listed in
.B /etc/shells
unless you are the super-user.
If
.B /etc/shells
does not exist, the only shells that may be specified are
.B /bin/sh
and
.BR /bin/csh .
.LP
The super-user may change anyone's login shell; normal users
may only change their own login shell.
.LP
When changing a full name,
.B passwd
displays the current full name, enclosed
between brackets, and prompts for a
new full name.  If you type a 
.SM RETURN\s0,
the full name is not changed.
If the full name is to be made blank,
you must type the word \*(lqnone\*(rq.
.LP
The super-user may change anyone's full name; normal
users may only change their own.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-a
Display the name and aging information for all users.
Can only be invoked by the super-user.
.TP
.B \-f
Change the full name.
.TP
.B \-l
Change the local password, login shell, or full name.
If
.I username
exists in the local passwd file, this is the default.
.TP
.B \-s
Change the login shell.
.TP
.B \-y
Change passwd, login shell, or full name in the
.SM NIS
database.
.TP
.BI "\-d \fR[" username\fR]
Display the name and aging information for the caller or the user specified
if the invoker has the right privileges.
.TP
.BI \-e " username"
Expire the password for the user name specified.
Can only be invoked by the super-user.
.TP
.BI \-F " filename"
Treat
.I filename
as the password file.
.TP
.BI \-n " numdays username"
Set the maturity time of the password for username.
Passwords that have not \*(lqaged\*(rq enough cannot be changed.
Can only be set by the super-user.
.TP
.BI \-x " numdays username"
Set the expiration time of the password for username.
Can only be set by the super-user.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/passwd
file containing all of this information
.TP
.B /etc/shells
list of approved shells
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR finger (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR yppasswd (1),
.BR crypt (3),
.BR passwd (5)
.\".br
.\"Robert Morris and Ken Thompson,
.\".I UNIX Password Security
.SH NOTES
.LP
Password algorithms do not work with 8-bit characters.
This maintains consistency with
.B login
file naming
rules, which do not allow 8-bit characters in
.B login
names.
See
.BR login (1)
for explanations about why
.B login
is not 8-bit clean.
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
