.\" @(#)paste.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2 6.2
.TH PASTE 1V "17 September 1989"
.SH NAME
paste \- join corresponding lines of several files, or subsequent lines of one file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B paste 
.I filename1
.I filename2
\&.\|.\|.
.br
.B paste
.BI \-d list
.I filename1
.I filename2
\&.\|.\|.
.br
.B paste
.B \-s
[
.BI \-d list
]
.I filename
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX paste "" "\fLpaste\fR \(em horizontal merge"
.IX files paste "" "\fLpaste\fR \(em horizontal merge"
.IX "merge files \(em \fLpaste\fR"
In the first two forms,
.B paste
concatenates corresponding lines of the given input
files
.IR filename1 ,
.IR filename2 ,
etc.
It treats each file as a column or columns
of a table and pastes them together horizontally
(parallel merging).
It is the counterpart of
.BR cat (1V)
which concatenates vertically, that is,
one file after the other.
In the last form above,
.B paste
replaces the function of an older command with the same name
by combining subsequent lines of the input file (serial merging).
In all cases,
lines are glued together with the
.SM TAB
character, or with characters from an optionally specified
.IR list .
.B paste
can be used as a filter, if
.B \-
is used in place of a filename.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-d"
Without this option, the
.SM NEWLINE
characters of each but the last file
(or last line in case of the
.B \-s
option)
are replaced by a
.SM  TAB
character.  This option allows replacing the
.SM TAB
character by one or more alternate characters in
.I list.
The list is used circularly; when exhausted, it is reused.
In parallel merging (no
.B \-s
option),
the lines from the last file are always terminated with a
.SM NEWLINE
character,
not from the
.IR list .
.I list
may contain the special escape sequences:
.B \en
.BR  (\s-1NEWLINE\s0),
.B \et
.BR  (tab),
.B \e\e
.BR  (backslash), " and"
.B \e0
(empty string, not a null character).
Quoting may be necessary, if characters
have special meaning to the shell.
.TP
.B "\-s"
Merge subsequent lines rather than one from each input file.
Use
.SM TAB
for concatenation, unless
.I list
is specified
with
.BR \-d .
Regardless of the
.IR list ,
the very last character of the file is forced to be a
.SM NEWLINE\s0.
.SH EXAMPLES
.\".TP
.\"\fBls \|\(bv\| paste \|\-d" " \|\-\fR
.\"List directory in one column.
.LP 
List directory in four columns:
.IP
.B "ls | paste\|\-\|\-\|\-\|\-"
.LP
Combine pairs of lines into lines:
.IP
.ft B
paste \-s \-d"\e\|t\e\|n" filename
.ft
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cat (1V),
.BR cut (1V),
.BR grep (1V),
.BR pr (1V)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B "line too long"
Output lines are restricted to 511 characters.
.TP
.B "too many files"
Except for
.B \-s
option, no more than 12 input files may be specified.
