.\" @(#)paxcpio.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new for 4.1
.TH PAXCPIO 1V "19 September 1989"
.SH NAME
paxcpio \- copy file archives in and out
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/paxcpio
.B \-o
[
.B aBcv
]
.br
.B /usr/5bin/paxcpio
.B \-i
[
.B Bcdfmrtuv
]
[
.IR pattern \|.\|.\|.
]
.br
.B /usr/5bin/paxcpio
.B \-p
[
.B adlmruv
]
.I directory
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
.B paxcpio
is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "paxcpio copy" "" "\fLpaxcpio\fP \(em copy file archives in and out" ""
.IX copy "file archives in and out"
.IX archives "copy file archives in and out"
.LP
.B paxcpio
produces and reads files in the format specified by the
.B cpio
.B "Archive/Interchange File Format"
specified in
.IR "IEEE Std. 1003.1-1988" .
.LP
When specified with the
.B \-i
argument,
.B paxcpio
extracts files from the standard input, which is
assumed to be the product of a previous
.RB ` "paxcpio \-o" '.
Only files with names that match
.I pattern
are selected.
.I pattern
is a simple regular expression given in the name-generating
notation of the shell.
Multiple
.IR pattern s
may be specified, and if no
.I pattern
is specified, the default
is 
.RB ` * ',
selecting all files.
The extracted files are conditionally created and copied into the
current directory, and possibly any levels below, based upon the
options specified.
The permissions of the files will be those
of the previous
.RB ` "paxcpio \-o" '.
The owner and group of the files will be that of the current user
unless the user has appropriate privileges, in which case
.B paxcpio
retains the owner and group of the files of the previous
.RB ` "paxcpio -o" '.
.LP
When specified with the
.B \-p
argument,
.B paxcpio
reads the standard input to obtain a list
of files that are conditionally created and copied into the
destination
.I directory 
based upon the options described below.
.LP
If an error is detected, the cause is reported and 
.B paxcpio
continues to copy other files.
.B paxcpio
will skip over any unrecognized files that
it encounters in the archive.
.LP
The following restrictions apply to
.BR paxcpio :
.RS
.TP
\(bu
Pathnames are restricted to 256 characters.
.TP
\(bu
Appropriate privileges are required to copy special files.
.TP
\(bu
Blocks are reported in 512-byte quantities.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Reset access times of input files after they have been copied.
When the
.B \-l
option is also specified, the linked files do not have their access
times reset.
Can only be used with the
.B \-i
or
.B \-o
arguments.
.TP
.B \-B
Input/output is to be blocked 5120 bytes to the record.
Can only be used with the
.B \-i
or
.B \-o
arguments
for data that is directed to or from character special files.
.TP
.B \-c
Write header information in
.SM ASCII
character for for portability.
Can only be used with the
.B \-i
or
.B \-o
arguments.
Note: this option should always be used to write portable files.
.TP
.B \-d
Create directories as needed.
Can only be used with  the
.B \-i
or
.B \-p
arguments.
.TP 
.B \-f
Copy in all files except those in
.IR pattern s.
Can only be used with the
.B \-i
argument.
.TP 
.B \-l
Whenever possible, link files rather than copying them.
Can only be used with  the
.B \-p
argument.
.TP 
.B \-m
Retain previous modification times.
This option is ineffective on directories that are being copied.
Can only be used with the
.B \-i
or
.B \-p
arguments.
.TP 
.B \-r
Interactively rename files.
The user is asked whether to rename
.I pattern
each invocation.
Read and write permissions for
.B "/dev/tty"
are required for this option.
If the user types a null line, the file is skipped.
Should only be used with the
.B \-i
or
.B \-o
arguments.
.TP 
.B \-t
Print a table of contents of the input.
No files are created.
Can only be used with the
.B \-i
argument.
.br
.ne 5
.TP 
.B \-u
Copy files unconditionally; usually an older file will not replace a
new file with the same name.
Can only be used with the
.B \-i
or
.B \-p
arguments.
.TP 
.B \-v
Verbose.
Print the names of the affected files.
Can only be used with the
.B \-i
argument.
Provides a detailed listing when used with the 
.B \-t
option.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following command:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
ls | paxcpio \-o > .\|.\|/newfile
.ft R
.RE
.LP
copies out the files listed by
.BR ls (1V)
and redirects them to the file
.BR newfile .
.LP
The following command:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
cat newfile | paxcpio \-id "memo/al" "memo/b*"
.ft R
.RE
.LP
uses the output file
.B newfile
from
.BR "paxcpio \-o" ,
takes those files that match the patterns
\fB"memo/al"\fR
and
\fB"memo/b*"\fR,
creates the directories below the current directory,
and places the files in the appropriate directories.
.LP
The command:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
find . \-depth \-print | paxcpio \-pdlmv newdir
.ft R
.RE
.LP
takes the file names piped to it from
.BR find (1)
and copies or links those files to another directory
named
.BR newdir ,
while retaining the modification time.
.SH EXIT CODES
.LP
.B paxcpio
exits with one of the following values:
.TP 
0
All input files were copied.
.TP 
2
.B paxcpio
encountered errors in copying or accessing files or
directories.
An error will be reported for nonexistent files or directories, or
permissions that do not allow the user to access the source or target
files.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/tty
used to prompt the user for information when the
.B \-i 
or 
.B \-r
options are specified
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cpio (1),
.BR find (1),
.BR pax (1V),
.BR tar (1),
.BR ustar (1V),
.BR cpio (5),
.BR tar (5)
.LP
.I "IEEE Std. 1003.1-1988"
.SH NOTES
.LP
It is important to use the
.B "\-depth"
option of
.BR find (1)
to generate pathnames for 
.BR paxcpio .
This eliminates problems
.B paxcpio
could have trying to create files under read-only directories.
.\".SH COPYRIGHT
.\"Copyright (c) 1989 Mark H. Colburn.  
.\".br
.\"All rights reserved.
.\".LP
.\"Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
.\"provided that the above copyright notice is duplicated in all such 
.\"forms and that any documentation, advertising materials, and other 
.\"materials related to such distribution and use acknowledge that the 
.\"software was developed by Mark H. Colburn and sponsored by The 
.\"USENIX Association. 
.\".LP
.\"THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\"IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\"WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Mark H. Colburn
NAPS International
117 Mackubin Street, Suite 1
St. Paul, MN 55102
.fi
.LP
Sponsored by
.B "The USENIX Association"
for public distribution.
