.\" @(#)perfmeter.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH PERFMETER 1 "21 January 1988"
.SH NAME
perfmeter \- display system performance values in a meter or strip chart
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B perfmeter
[
.B \-s
.I sample-time
] [
.B \-h
.I h-hand-int
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-m
.I m-hand-int
]
[
.B \-M
.I smax minmax maxmax
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
.if t .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-v
.I value
] [
.I hostname
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I SunView User's
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "perfmeter command"  ""  "\fLperfmeter\fP \(em display performance statistics"
.IX  "performance monitoring"  ""  "performance monitoring \(em \fLperfmeter\fP"
.B perfmeter
is a SunView utility that displays performance values (statistics) for
a given
.IR hostname .
If no host is specified, statistics on the current host are metered.
The
.BR rstatd (8C)
daemon must be running on the machine being metered.
.LP
When open,
.BR perfmeter
displays a performance value in the form of a strip chart.  When
closed, it displays a meter dial.
By default, the display is updated with a
.I sample-time
of 2 seconds.
The hour hand of the meter represents the average over a
20-second interval;
the minute hand, the average over 2 seconds. The default
value displayed is the percent of
.SM CPU
being utilized.
.LP
The maximum scale value for the strip chart will automatically double
or halve to accommodate increasing or decreasing values for the
host machine.  This scale can be restricted to a certain range
with the
.B \-M
option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-s " sample-time"
Set the sample time to
.I sample-time
seconds.
.TP
.BI \-h  " h-hand-int"
Set the hour-hand interval to
.I h-hand-int
seconds.
.TP
.BI \-m  " m-hand-int"
Set the minute hand interval to
.I m-hand-int
seconds.
.TP
.BI \-M  " smax minmax maxmax"
Set a range of maximum values for the strip chart.  Values for
each of the arguments should be powers of 2.
.I smax
sets the starting maximum-value.
.I minmax
sets the lowest allowed maximum-value for the scale.
.I maxmax
sets the highest allowed maximum-value.
.TP
.BI \-v " value"
Set the performance value to be monitored to one of:
.RS
.TP 8n
.B cpu
Percent of
.SM CPU
being utilized.
.TP
.B pkts
Ethernet packets per second.
.TP
.B page
Paging activity in pages per second.
.TP
.B swap
Jobs swapped per second.
.TP
.B intr
Number of device interrupts per second.
.TP
.B disk
Disk traffic in transfers per second.
.TP
.B cntxt
Number of context switches per second.
.TP
.B load
Average number of runnable processes over the last minute.
.TP
.B colls
Collisions per second detected on the ethernet.
.TP
.B errs
Errors per second on receiving packets.
.RE
.br
.ne 5
.SH USAGE
.SS Commands
.LP
You can change the statistic being displayed by clicking
the
.SM RIGHT
mouse button, and then choosing the desired menu item.
The other meter parameters can be modified by moving the pointer
onto the tool (either open or closed), and typing:
.RS
.TP
.B m
Decrease
.I minutehandintv
by one
.TP
.B M
Increase
.I minutehandintv
by one
.TP
.B h
Decrease
.I hourhandintv
by one
.TP
.B H
Increase
.I hourhandintv
by one
.TP
.B 1\-9
Set
.I sampletime
to a range from 1 to 9 seconds.
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/inetd.conf
starts statistics server
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sunview (1),
.BR netstat (8C),
.BR rstatd (8C),
.BR vmstat (8)
