.\" @(#)plot.1g 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD
.TH PLOT 1G "22 December 1987"
.SH NAME
plot, aedplot, bgplot, crtplot, dumbplot, gigiplot, hpplot, implot, t300, t300s, t4013, t450, tek \- graphics filters for various plotters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B plot
[
.BI \-T terminal
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I Graphics
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "plot command"  ""  "\fLplot\fP \(em graphics filters"
.IX  "graphics filters"  ""  "graphics filters \(em \fLplot\fP"
.B plot
reads plotting instructions (see
.BR  plot (5))
from the standard input and produces plotting instructions suitable
for a particular
.I terminal
on the standard output.
.LP
If no
.I terminal
is specified, the environment variable
.SB TERM
is used.  The default
.I terminal
is
.BR tek .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
Except for
.BR ver ,
the following terminal-types can be used with
.RB ` "lpr \-g" '
see 
.BR lpr (1))
to produce plotted output:
.RS
.HP 12n
.BR 2648  " | "
.BR 2648a " | "
.BR h8 " | "
.BR hp2648 " | "
.BR hp2648a
.br
Hewlett Packard 2648 graphics terminal.
.TP
.B 300
.SM DASI
300 or
.SM GSI
terminal (Diablo mechanism).
.TP
.BR 300s " | " 300S
.SM DASI
300s terminal (Diablo mechanism).
.TP
.B 450
.SM DASI
Hyterm 450 terminal (Diablo mechanism).
.TP
.B 4013
Tektronix 4013 storage scope.
.TP
.BR 4014 " | " tek
Tektronix 4014 and 4015 storage scope
with Enhanced Graphics Module.
(Use 4013 for Tektronix 4014 or 4015 without the Enhanced
Graphics Module).
.TP
.B aed
.SM AED
512 color graphics terminal.
.HP
.BR bgplot " | "
.B bitgraph
.br
.SM BBN
bitgraph graphics terminal.
.TP
.B crt
Any crt terminal capable of running
.BR vi (1).
.HP
.BR dumb  " | "
.BR un " | "
.B unknown
.br
Dumb terminals without cursor addressing or line printers.
.TP
.BR gigi " | " vt125
.SM DEC
vt125 terminal.
.HP
.BR h7 " | "
.BR hp7 " | "
.B hp7221
.br
Hewlett Packard 7221 graphics terminal.
.TP
.B implot
Imagen plotter.
.TP
.B var
Benson Varian printer-plotter
.TP
.B ver
Versatec D1200A printer-plotter.  The output is scan-converted and
suitable input to
.RB ` "lpr \-v" '.
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/bin/t300
.TP
.B /usr/bin/t300s
.TP
.B /usr/bin/t4013
.TP
.B /usr/bin/t450
.TP
.B /usr/bin/aedplot
.TP
.B /usr/bin/crtplot
.TP
.B /usr/bin/gigiplot
.TP
.B /usr/bin/implot
.TP
.B /usr/bin/plot
.TP
.B /usr/bin/bgplot
.TP
.B /usr/bin/dumbplot
.TP
.B /usr/bin/hpplot
.TP
.B /usr/bin/vplot
.TP
.B /usr/bin/tek
.TP
.B /usr/bin/t450
.TP
.B /usr/bin/t300
.TP
.B /usr/bin/t300s
.TP
.B /usr/bin/vplot
.TP
.BI /var/tmp/vplot nnnnnn
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR graph (1G),
.BR lpr (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR plot (3X),
.BR plot (5),
.BR rasterfile (5)
