.\" @(#)pr.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from 4.3 BSD and S5
.TH PR 1V "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
pr \- prepare file(s) for printing, perhaps in multiple columns
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pr
[
.BR \-\| | \| +
.I n
] [
.B \-fmt
] [
.B \-h
.I string
] [
.BI \-l n
] [
.BI \-s c
] 
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-w n
]
[
.I filename
] .\|.\|.
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/pr
[
.BR \-\| | \| +
.I n
] [
.B \-adfmprt
] [
.BI \-e ck
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-h 
.I string
]
[
.BI \-i ck
] [
.BI \-l n
] [
.BI \-n ck
]
.if n .ti +.5i
[
.BI \-o n
] 
[
.BI \-s c
]
[
.BI \-w n
]
.if t .ti +0.5i 
[
.I filename
] .\|.\|.
.if t .ti +0.5i
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "System V commands" "\fLpr\fR"
.IX  "pr command"  ""  "\fLpr\fP \(em prepare files for printing"
.IX  "prepare files for printing"  ""  "prepare files for printing \(em \fLpr\fP"
.IX  files  "prepare for printing"  files  "prepare files for printing \(em \fLpr\fP"
.IX  "multiple columns, print in \(em \fLpr\fP"
.IX  columns  "print in multiple"  ""  "print in multiple \(em \fLpr\fP"
.B pr
prepares one or more
.IR filename s
for printing.  By default, the output is separated
into pages headed by a date, the name of the file, and the page number.
.B pr
prints its standard input if there are no
.I filename
arguments.  
.SM FORMFEED 
characters in the input files cause page breaks in
the output, as expected.
.LP
By default, columns are of equal width,
separated by at least one
.SM SPACE\s0;
lines that do not fit are truncated.  If the
.B \-s
option is used, lines are not truncated
and columns are separated by the
separation character.
.LP
Inter-terminal messages using
.BR write (1)
are forbidden during a
.BR pr .
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options apply to all following
.IR filename s
but may be reset between
.IR filename s:
.TP
.BI \-f
Use 
.SM FORMFEED
characters instead of
.SM NEWLINE
characters to separate pages.
A 
.SM FORMFEED 
is assumed to use up two blank lines at the top of a page.
Thus this option does not affect the effective page length.
.TP
.B \-m
Print all
.IR filename s
simultaneously, each in one column, for example:
.RS
.RS
.nf
.ft B
.ta +.75i; +.75i; +.75i
Print	Print	The
the	the	third
lines	lines	file's
of 	of	lines
file	file	go
one.	two.	here.
.fi
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B \-t
Do not print the 5-line header or the 5-line trailer
normally supplied for
each page.  Pages are not separated when this option is
used, even if the
.B \-f
option was used.  The
.B \-t
option is intended for applications where
the results should be directed
to a file for further processing.
.TP
.BI \-h " string"
Use
.IR string ,
instead of the file name, in the page header.
.TP
.BI \-l n
Take the length of the page to be
.I n
lines instead of the default 66.
.TP
.BI \-s c
Separate columns by the single character
.I c
instead of by the appropriate amount of white space.  A missing
.I c
is taken to be a
.SM TAB\s0.
.TP
.BI \-w n
For multicolumn output, take the width of the page to be
.I n
characters instead of the default 72.
.TP
.BI \- n
Produce
.IR n -column
output.  For example:
.RS
.RS
.nf
.ta +.75i; +.75i; +.75;
.ft B
Print	of	in	
the	one	three	
lines	file	columns.
.fi
.in -.5i
.RE
.RE
.IP
Columns are not balanced; if, for example,
there are as many lines in the
file as there are lines on the page, only one column will be printed.
Even if the
.B \-t
option (see below) is specified, blank lines
will be printed at the end of
the output to pad it to a full page.
.TP
.BI + n
Begin printing with page
.IR  n .
.SH SYSTEM V OPTIONS
When the
.BI \- n
option is specified for multicolumn output,
columns are balanced. For
example, if there are as many lines in the
file as there are lines to be
printed, and two columns are to be printed,
each column will contain half
the lines of the file.  If the
.B \-t
option is specified, no blank lines will be
printed to pad the last page.
.LP
The options
.B \-e
and
.B \-i
are assumed for multicolumn output.  The
.B \-m
option overrides the
.B \-k
and
.B \-a
options.
.LP
The
.B \-f
option does not assume that 
.SM FORMFEED
uses up two blank lines; blank
lines will be printed after the 
.SM FORMFEED 
if necessary.
If the standard output is a terminal,
.B \-f
will cause
.B pr
to wait for a
.SM RETURN
before printing the first page.
.RS
.TP
.B \-a
When combined with the
.BI \- n
option, print multicolumn output across the page.  For example:
.RS
.RS
.nf
.ta +.75i; +.75i; +.75;
.ft B
Print	the	lines
of	one	file
in	three	columns.
.fi
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B \-d
Double-space the output.
.TP
.B \-p
Pause before beginning each page if the
output is directed to a terminal
.RB ( pr
will ring the bell at the terminal and
wait for a 
.SM RETURN\s0).
.TP
.B \-r
Do Not print diagnostic reports if a file
cannot be opened, or if it is empty.
.TP
.BI \-e ck
Expand
.I input
.SM TAB
characters to character positions
.IR k "+1, 2\(**" k "+1, 3\(**" k +1,
etc.
If
.I k
is 0 or is omitted, default
.SM TAB
settings
at every eighth position are assumed.
.SM TAB
characters in the input are expanded
into the appropriate number of 
.SM SPACE
characters.
If
.I c
(any non-digit character)
is given, it is treated as the input
.SM TAB
character
(default for
.I c
is the
.SM TAB
character).
.TP
.BI \-i ck
In
.IR output ,
replace white space wherever possible by inserting
.SM TAB
characters to character positions
.IR k "+1, 2\(**" k "+1, 3\(**" k +1,
etc.
If
.I k
is 0 or is omitted, default
.SM TAB
settings at every eighth position are assumed.
If
.I c
(any non-digit character)
is given, it is treated as the output
.SM TAB
(default for
.I c
is the
.SM TAB
character).
.TP
.BI \-n ck
Provide
.IR k -digit
line numbering (default for
.I k
is 5).
The number occupies the first
.IR k +1
character positions of each column of normal output
or each line of
.B \-m
output.  If
.I c
(any non-digit character) is given,
it is appended to the line number to separate
it from whatever follows (default for
.I c
is a
.SM TAB\s0).
.TP
.BI \-o k
Offset each line by
.I k
character positions.
The number of character positions
per line is the sum of the width and offset.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Print a file called
.B dreadnought
on the printer \(em this is the simplest use of
.BR pr :
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
.B example% pr  dreadnought | lpr
.B example%
.fi
.RE
.LP
Produce three laminations of a file called
.B ridings
side by side in the output, with no headers or trailers, the results to
appear in the file called
.BR Yorkshire :
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
.B
example% pr \-m \-t ridings ridings ridings > Yorkshire
.B example%
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/tty*
to suspend messages.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cat (1V),
.BR lpr (1),
.BR write (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B can't print 0 cols, using 1 instead.
.B \-0
was specified as a
.BI \- n
option.
.TP
.BI "pr: bad key " key
An illegal option was given.
.TP
.B pr: No room for columns.
The number of columns requested will not fit on the page.
.TP
.B pr: Too many args
More than 10 files were specified with the
.B \-m
option.
.TP
.IB filename " : " error
.I filename
could not be opened.  This diagnostic is not printed if
.B pr
is printing on a terminal.
.SH SYSTEM V DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B pr: bad option
An illegal option was given.
.TP
.B pr: width too small
The number of columns requested will not fit on the page.
.TP
.B pr: too many files
More than 10 files were specified with the
.B \-m
option.
.TP
.B pr: page-buffer overflow
The formatting required is more complicated than
.B pr
can handle.
.TP
.B pr: out of space
.B pr
could not allocate a buffer it required.
.TP
.BI "pr: " filename "-- empty file"
.I filename
was empty.  This diagnostic is printed
after all the files are printed if
.B pr
is printing on a terminal.
.TP
.BI "pr: can't open " filename
.I filename
could not be opened.  This diagnostic
is printed after all the files are printed if
.B pr
is printing on a terminal.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The options described above interact with each
other in strange and as yet to be defined ways.
