'\" t
.\" @(#)ps.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH PS 1 "2 October 1989"
.SH NAME
ps \- display the status of current processes 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ps
[
.RB [ \- ]\c
.B acCegjklnrSuUvwx
.\"
.\" there is *no* space between the string of single options and num
.\"
]\|[
.BI \-t x
]\||\|[
.I num
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.I kernel-name
]
[
.I c-dump-file
]
[
.I swap-file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ps command"  ""  "\fLps\fP \(em display process status"
.IX  display "process status \(em \fLps\fP"
.IX  process  "display status"  ""  "display status \(em \fLps\fP"
.B ps
displays information about processes.
Normally, only those processes that are running with your effective user
.SM ID
and are attached to a controlling terminal (see 
.BR termio (4))
are shown.
Additional categories of processes
can be added to the display using various options.
In particular, the
.B \-a
option allows you to include processes that are not owned by you
(that do not have your user
.SM ID\s0),
and the
.B \-x
option allows you to
include processes without control terminals.
When you specify
both 
.B \-a
and 
.BR \-x ,
you get processes owned by anyone, with or without a control
terminal.
The
.B \-r
option restricts the list of processes printed to \*(lqrunning\*(rq processes:
runnable processes, those in page wait, or those in 
short-term non-interruptible waits.
.LP
.B ps
displays the process
.SM ID\s0,
under
.SM PID\s0;
the control terminal (if any), under
.SM TT\s0;
the cpu time used by the 
process so far, including both user and system time), under
.SM TIME\s0;
the state of the process, under
.SM STAT\s0;
and finally, an indication of the 
.SM COMMAND
that is running.
.LP
The state is given by a sequence of four letters, for example,
.RB ` \s-1RWNA\s0 '.
.TP 15
.I First letter
indicates the runnability of the process:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 8
.B R
Runnable processes.
.TP
.B T
Stopped processes.
.TP
.B P
Processes in page wait.
.TP
.B D
Processes in non-interruptible waits; typically short-term
waits for disk or 
.SM NFS
I/O.
.TP
.B S
Processes sleeping for less than about 20 seconds.
.TP
.B I
Processes that are idle (sleeping longer than about 20 seconds).
.TP
.B Z
Processes that have terminated and that are waiting for their parent process
to do a
.BR wait (2V)
(\*(lqzombie\*(rq processes).
.RE
.PD
.TP
.I Second letter
indicates whether a process is swapped out;
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 8
.I blank
Represented as a
.SM SPACE
character,
in this position indicates that the process is loaded
(in memory).
.TP
.B W
Process is swapped out.
.TP
.B >
Process has specified a soft limit on memory requirements
and has exceeded that limit; such a process is (necessarily)
not swapped.
.RE
.PD
.TP
.I Third letter
indicates whether a process is running with altered
.SM CPU
scheduling priority
.RB ( nice (1)):
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 8
.I blank
Represented as a
.SM SPACE
character,
in this position indicates that the process is
running without special treatment.
.TP
.B N
The process priority is reduced,
.TP
.B < 
The process priority has been raised artificially.
.RE
.PD
.TP
.I Fourth letter
indicates any special treatment of the process for virtual
memory replacement.
The letters correspond to options to the
.BR vadvise (2)
system call.
Currently the possibilities are:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 8
.I blank
Represented as a
.SM SPACE
character,
in this position stands for
.BR \s-1VA_NORM\s0 .
.TP
.B A
Stands for
.BR \s-1VA_ANOM\s0 .
An
.B A 
typically represents a program which is doing
garbage collection.
.TP
.B S
Stands for
.BR \s-1VA_SEQL\s0 .
An
.B S
is typical of large image processing programs
that are using virtual memory to sequentially address voluminous data.
.RE
.PD
.LP
.I kernel-name
specifies the location of the system namelist.
If the 
.B \-k
option is given, 
.I c-dump-file
tells
.B ps
where to look for the core dump.
Otherwise, the core dump is located in the file
.B /vmcore 
and this argument is ignored.
.I swap-file
gives the location of a swap file other than
the default,
.BR /dev/drum .
.br
.ne 8
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options must all be combined to form the first argument.
.TP 5
.B \-a
Include information about processes owned by others.
.TP
.B \-c
Display the command name, as stored internally in the system for 
accounting purposes, rather than the command arguments,
which are kept in the process address space.
This is more reliable, if less informative,
as the process is free to destroy the latter information.
.TP
.B \-C
Display raw
.SM CPU
time
instead of the decaying average
in the
.SB %CPU
field.
.TP
.B \-e
Display the environment as well as the arguments to the command.
.TP
.B \-g
Display all processes.
Without this option,
.B ps
prints only \*(lqinteresting\*(rq processes.
Processes are deemed to be uninteresting if they are process group leaders.
This normally eliminates top-level command interpreters and processes
waiting for users to login on free terminals.
.TP
.B \-j
Display a listing useful for job control information, with fields
PPID, PID, PGID, SID, TT, TPGID, STAT, UID, TIME, and
COMMAND as described below.
.RS
.LP
With this option,
the STAT field has three additional letters:
.TP
.B C
indicates the process does not want SIGCHLD when a child changes state
done to job control.
.TP
.B E
The process has completed an exec, and the
parent can no longer change the
process group of this process.
.TP 
.B O
The process is an orphan, with no parent process
to handle job control signals.
.RE
.TP
.B \-k
Normally, 
.I kernel-name
defaults to 
.BR /vmunix ,
.I c-dump-file 
is ignored, and
.I swap-file 
defaults to 
.BR /dev/drum .
With the
.B \-k
option in effect, these arguments default to 
.BR /vmunix ,
.BR /vmcore ,
and
.BR /dev/drum ,
respectively.
.TP
.B \-l
Display a long listing, with fields
.BR \s-1F\s0 ,
.BR \s-1PPID\s0 , 
.BR \s-1CP\s0 , 
.BR \s-1PRI\s0 , 
.BR \s-1NI\s0 , 
.BR \s-1SZ\s0 , 
.BR \s-1RSS\s0 ,
and
.BR \s-1WCHAN\s0 ,
as described below.
.TP
.B \-n
Produce numeric output for some fields.
In a long listing, the
.SB WCHAN
field is printed numerically rather than
symbolically, or, in a user listing, the
.SB USER
field is replaced by a
.SB UID
field.
.TP
.B \-r
Restrict output to \*(lqrunning\*(rq processes.
.TP
.B \-S
Display accumulated
.SM CPU
time used by this process and all of its reaped 
children.
.TP
.B \-u
Display user-oriented output.
This includes fields
.BR \s-1USER\s0 ,
.BR \s-1%CPU\s0 ,
.BR \s-1%MEM\s0 ,
.BR \s-1SZ\s0 ,
.SB RSS
and
.SB START
as described below.
.TP
.B \-U
Update a private database where
.B ps
keeps system information.
Include
.RB ` "ps \-U" '
in the
.B /etc/rc
file.
.TP
.B \-v
Display a version of the output describing virtual memory
information.
This includes fields
.BR \s-1RE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1SL\s0 ,
.BR \s-1PAGEIN\s0 ,
.BR \s-1SIZE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1RSS\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LIM\s0 ,
.SB %CPU
and
.BR \s-1%MEM\s0 ,
described below.
.TP
.B \-w
Use a wide output format (132 columns rather than 80); if repeated,
that is,
.BR \-ww ,
use arbitrarily wide output.
This information is used to decide how much of long commands to print.
.TP
.B \-x
Include processes with no controlling terminal.
.LP
The following two options are mutually exclusive.
When specified, these options must appear
immediately following the last option.
.TP
.BI \-t x
Restrict output to processes whose controlling terminal is
.I x
(which should be specified as printed by
.BR ps ;
for example,
.B t3
for
.BR /dev/tty3 ,
.B tco
for
.BR /dev/console ,
.B td0
for
.BR /dev/ttyd0 ,
.B t?
for processes with no terminal, etc).
This option must be the last one given.
.TP
.I num
A process number may be given, in which case the output
is restricted to that process.
This option must also be last,
and must appear with no
white space between it and the previous option.
.SH "DISPLAY FORMATS"
.LP
Fields that are not common to all output formats:
.PD 0
.TP 12
.SB USER
Name of the owner of the process.
.TP
.SB %CPU
.SM CPU
use of the process; this is a decaying average over up to
a minute of previous (real) time.
Because the time base over which this
is computed varies (since processes may be very young) it is possible
for the sum of all
.SB %CPU
fields to exceed 100%.
.TP
.SB NI
Process scheduling increment (see
.BR getpriority (2)
and
.BR nice (3V)).
.TP
.PD 0
.SB SIZE
.TP
.SB SZ
.PD
The combined size of the data and stack segments (in kilobytes)
.TP
.SB RSS
Real memory (resident set) size of the process (in kilobytes).
.TP
.SB LIM
Soft limit on memory used, specified using a call to
.BR getrlimit (2);
if no limit has been specified, this is shown as
.IR xx .
.TP
.SB %MEM
Percentage of real memory used by this process.
.TP
.SB RE
Residency time of the process (seconds in core).
.TP
.SB SL
Sleep time of the process (seconds blocked).
.TP
.SB PAGEIN
Number of disk I/Os resulting from references by the process
to pages not loaded in core.
.TP
.SB UID
Numeric user-\s-1ID\s0 of process owner.
.TP
.SB PPID
Numeric
.SM ID
of parent of process.
.TP
.TP
.SB SID
Numeric
.SM ID
of the session to which the process belongs. SID = PGID = PID indicates
a session leader.
.TP
.SB PGID
Numeric 
.SM ID
of the process group of the process.
.TP
.SB TPGID
Numeric
.SM ID
of the process group associated with the terminal specified under
TT (distinguished process group, see 
.BR termio (4)).
.TP
.SB CP
Short-term
.SM CPU
utilization factor (used in scheduling).
.TP
.SB PRI
Process priority (non-positive when in non-interruptible wait).
.TP
.SB START
Time the process was created if today, or the date it was
created if before today.
.TP
.SB WCHAN
Event on which process is waiting (an address in the system).
A symbol is chosen that classifies the address, unless numeric
output is requested (see the 
.B n
flag).
In this case, the address is printed in hexadecimal.
.sp
.TP
.B F
Flags (in hex) associated with process as in 
.RB < sys/proc.h >:
.br
.\" === troff version ===
.if n .ig IG
.RS
.TS
;
lfB l l .
\s-1SLOAD\s0	00000001	in core
\s-1SSYS\s0	00000002	swapper or pager process
\s-1SLOCK\s0	00000004	process being swapped out
\s-1SSWAP\s0	00000008	save area flag
\s-1STRC\s0	00000010	process is being traced
\s-1SWTED\s0	00000020	parent has been told that this process stopped
\s-1SULOCK\s0	00000040	user can set lock in core
\s-1SPAGE\s0	00000080	process in page wait state
\s-1SKEEP\s0	00000100	another flag to prevent swap out
\s-1SOMASK\s0	00000200	restore old mask after taking signal
\s-1SWEXIT\s0	00000400	working on exiting
\s-1SPHYSIO\s0	00000800	doing physical I/O
\s-1SVFORK\s0	00001000	process resulted from vfork()
\s-1SVFDONE\s0	00002000	another vfork flag
\s-1SNOVM\s0	00004000	no vm, parent in a vfork()
\s-1SPAGI\s0	00008000	init data space on demand, from vnode
\s-1SSEQL\s0	00010000	user warned of sequential vm behavior
\s-1SUANOM\s0	00020000	user warned of anomalous vm behavior
\s-1STIMO\s0	00040000	timing out during sleep
\s-1SORPHAN\s0	00080000	process is orphaned
\s-1STRACNG\s0	00100000	process is tracing another process
\s-1SOWEUPC\s0	00200000	process is being profiled and has a pending count increment
\s-1SSEL\s0	00400000	selecting; wakeup/waiting danger
\s-1SFAVORD\s0	02000000	favored treatment in swapout and pageout
\s-1SLKDONE\s0	04000000	record-locking has been done
\s-1STRCSYS\s0	08000000	tracing system calls
\s-1SNOCLDSTOP\s0	10000000	SIGCHLD not sent when child stops
\s-1SEXECED\s0	20000000	process has completed an exec
\s-1SRPC\s0	40000000	sunview window locking
.TE
.RE
.PD
.IG
.\" === end troff version ====
.\" === nroff version ===
.if t .ig IG
.RS
.TS
;
lfB l l .
\s-1SLOAD\s0	00000001	in core
\s-1SSYS\s0	00000002	swapper or pager process
\s-1SLOCK\s0	00000004	process being swapped out
\s-1SSWAP\s0	00000008	save area flag
\s-1STRC\s0	00000010	process is being traced
\s-1SWTED\s0	00000020	parent has been told that 
		this process stopped
\s-1SULOCK\s0	00000040	user can set lock in core
\s-1SPAGE\s0	00000080	process in page wait state
\s-1SKEEP\s0	00000100	another flag to prevent 
		swap out
\s-1SOMASK\s0	00000200	restore old mask after 
		taking signal
\s-1SWEXIT\s0	00000400	working on exiting
\s-1SPHYSIO\s0	00000800	doing physical I/O
\s-1SVFORK\s0	00001000	process resulted from 
		vfork()
\s-1SVFDONE\s0	00002000	another vfork flag
\s-1SNOVM\s0	00004000	no vm, parent in a vfork()
\s-1SPAGI\s0	00008000	init data space on demand, 
		from vnode
\s-1SSEQL\s0	00010000	user warned of sequential 
		vm behavior
\s-1SUANOM\s0	00020000	user warned of anomalous 
		vm behavior
\s-1STIMO\s0	00040000	timing out during sleep
\s-1SORPHAN\s0	00080000	process is orphaned
\s-1STRACNG\s0	00100000	process is tracing another 
		process
\s-1SOWEUPC\s0	00200000	process is being profiled 
		and has a pending count increment
\s-1SSEL\s0	00400000	selecting; wakeup/waiting 
		danger
\s-1SFAVORD\s0	02000000	favored treatment in 
		swapout and pageout
\s-1SLKDONE\s0	04000000	record-locking has been 
		done
\s-1STRCSYS\s0	08000000	tracing system calls
\s-1SNOCLDSTOP\s0	10000000	SIGCHLD not sent when 
		child stops
\s-1SEXECED\s0	20000000	process has completed 
		an exec
\s-1SRPC\s0	40000000	sunview window locking
.TE
.RE
.PD
.IG
.\" === end nroff version ====
.LP
A process that has exited and has a parent, but has not
yet been waited for by the parent, is marked
.RB < defunct >;
a process that is blocked trying to exit is marked
.RB < exiting >;
otherwise,
.B ps
makes an educated guess as to the file name
and arguments given when the process was created
by examining memory or the swap area.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
The environment variables
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.B \s-1LC\s0_default
control the character classification
throughout
.BR ps .
On entry to
.BR ps ,
these environment variables are checked in the
following order:
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.BR \s-1LC\s0_default.
When a valid value is found,
remaining environment variables for character classification
are ignored.
For example, a new setting for
.B \s-1LANG\s0
does not override the current valid character
classification rules of
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 .
When none of the values is valid,
the shell character
classification defaults to the 
.SM POSIX.1 \*(lqC\*(rq
locale.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /vmunix
system namelist
.TP
.B /dev/kmem
kernel memory
.TP
.B /dev/drum
swap device
.TP
.B /vmcore
core file
.TP
.B /dev
searched to find swap device and terminal names
.TP
.B /etc/psdatabase
system namelist, device, and wait channel information
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR kill (1),
.BR w (1),
.BR getpriority (2),
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR wait (2V),
.BR vadvise (2),
.BR nice (3V),
.BR termio (4),
.BR locale (5),
.BR pstat (8)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Things can change while
.B ps
is running; the picture it gives is only a close approximation to the
current state.


