.\" @(#)ranlib.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2 BSD
.TH RANLIB 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
ranlib \- convert archives to random libraries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ranlib
[
.B \-t
]
.IR archive .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ranlib command"  ""  "\fLranlib\fP \(em make random library"
.IX  "create" "random library \(em \fLranlib\fP"
.IX  "build" "random library \(em \fLranlib\fP"
.IX  "programming tools"  ranlib  ""  "\fLranlib\fP \(em make random library"
.IX  "object code management"  ranlib  ""  "\fLranlib\fP \(em make random library"
.IX  library "make random \(em \fLranlib\fP"
.B ranlib
converts each
.I archive
to a form that can be linked more rapidly.
.B ranlib
does this by adding a table of contents called
.B _\|_.\s-1SYMDEF\s0
to the beginning of the archive.
.B ranlib
uses
.BR ar (1V)
to reconstruct the archive. Sufficient temporary file space must
be available in the file system that contains the current directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-t
.B ranlib
only \*(lqtouches\*(rq the archives and does not modify them.
This is useful after copying an archive
or using the
.B \-t
option of
.BR make (1)
to avoid having
.BR ld (1)
complain about
an \*(lqout of date\*(rq symbol table.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ar (1V),
.BR ld (1),
.BR lorder (1),
.BR make (1)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Because generation of a library by
.B ar
and randomization of the library by
.B ranlib
are separate processes, phase errors are possible.  The linker,
.BR ld ,
warns when the modification date of a library is more recent than the
creation date of its dictionary;  but this means that you get the
warning even if you only copy the library.
