.\" @(#)rcp.1c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH RCP 1C "17 May 1989"
.SH NAME
rcp \- remote file copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rcp
[
.B \-p
]
.I filename1 filename2
.br
.B rcp
[
.B \-pr
]
.IR filename .\|.\|. directory
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rcp command"  ""  "\fLrcp\fP \(em remote file copy"
.IX  copy "files from remote machine \(em \fLrcp\fP"
.IX  file  "copy from remote machine"  ""  "copy from remote machine \(em \fLrcp\fP"
.IX  "remote file copy"  ""  "remote file copy \(em \fLrcp\fP"
.IX  network  "copy files across"  ""  "copy files across \(em \fLrcp\fP"
.B rcp
copies files between machines.  Each
.I filename
or
.I directory
argument is either a remote file name of the form:
.IP
.IB hostname : path
.LP
or a local file name (containing no
.RB ` : '
characters, or a
.RB ` / '
before any
.RB ` : 's).
.LP
If a
.I filename
is not a full path name, it is interpreted relative to
your home directory on
.IR hostname .
A
.I path
on a remote host may be quoted (using \fB\e\fR, \fB"\fR,
or \fB\(aa\fR)
so that the metacharacters are interpreted remotely.
.LP
.B rcp
does not prompt for passwords; your current local user name
must exist on
.I hostname
and allow remote command execution by
.BR rsh (1C).
.LP
.B rcp
handles third party copies, where neither source nor target files
are on the current machine.
Hostnames may also take the form
.IP
.IB username @ hostname : filename
.LP
to use
.I username
rather than your current local user name as the user name on
the remote host.
.B rcp
also supports Internet domain addressing of the remote host,
so that:
.IP
.IB username @ host . domain :\c
.I filename
.LP
specifies the username to be used, the hostname, and the domain
in which that host resides.
Filenames that are not full path names will be interpreted
relative to the home directory of the user named
.IR username ,
on the remote host.
.LP
The destination hostname may also take the form
.IB hostname . username : filename
to support destination machines that are running older versions of
.BR rcp .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p
Attempt to give each copy the same modification times, access times,
and modes as the original file.
.TP
.B \-r
Copy each subtree rooted at
.IR filename ;
in this case the destination must be a directory.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B .cshrc
.TP
.B .login
.TP
.B .profile
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ftp (1C),
.BR rlogin (1C),
.BR rsh (1C)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B rcp
does not detect all cases where the target of a copy might
be a file in cases where only a directory should be legal.
.LP
.B rcp
can become confused by output generated by commands in a
.BR \&.profile ,
.BR \&.cshrc ,
or
.BR \&.login
file on the remote host.
.br
.ne 5
.LP
.B rcp
requires that the source host have permission
to execute commands on the
remote host when doing third-party copies.
.LP
If you forget to quote metacharacters intended for the remote host
you get an incomprehensible error message.
