.\" @(#)refer.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH REFER 1 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
refer \- expand and insert references from a bibliographic database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B refer
[
.B \-ben
] [
.BI \-a r
] [
.BI \-c string
] [
.BI \-k x
] [
.BI \-l m,n
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-p " filename"
] [
.BI \-s keys
]
.IR filename .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I Text
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "refer command"  ""  "\fLrefer\fP \(em insert literature references"
.IX  "insert literature references"  ""  "insert literature references \(em \fLrefer\fP"
.IX  find "literature references"  ""  "find literature references \(em \fLrefer\fP"
.IX  "document production"  refer  ""  "\fLrefer\fP \(em insert literature references"
.IX  "bibliography"  refer  ""  "\fLrefer\fP \(em insert literature references"
.IX  "literature references, find and insert \(em \fLrefer\fP"
.B refer
is a preprocessor for
.BR nroff (1),
or
.BR troff (1),
that finds and formats references.
The input files (standard input by
default) are copied to the standard output, except for lines between
.RB ` .\|[ '
and
.RB ` .\|] '
command lines,
Such lines are assumed to contain keywords as for
.BR lookbib (1),
and are replaced by information from a bibliographic data base.  The
user can avoid the search, override
fields from it, or add new fields.
The reference data, from whatever source, is assigned to a set of
.B troff
strings.  Macro packages such as
.BR ms (7)
print the finished reference text from
these strings.  A flag is placed
in the text at the point of reference.
By default, the references are
indicated by numbers.
.LP
When
.B refer
is used with
.BR eqn (1),
.BR neqn ,
or
.BR tbl (1),
.B refer
should be used first in the sequence, to minimize the
volume of data passed through pipes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Bare mode \(em do not put any flags in
text (neither numbers or labels).
.TP
.B \-e
Accumulate references instead of leaving
the references where encountered,
until a sequence of the form:
.RS
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
.ft B
\&.[
$\s-1LIST\s0$
\&.]
.fi
.RE
.RE
.IP
is encountered, and then write out all references collected so far.
Collapse references to the same source.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not search the default file.
.TP
.BI \-a r
Reverse the first
.I r
author names (Jones, J. A. instead of J. A. Jones).  If
.I r
is omitted, all author names are reversed.
.TP
.BI \-c string
Capitalize (with
\s-1SMALL CAPS\s0)
the fields whose key-letters are in
.IR string .
.TP
.BI \-k x
Instead of numbering references, use labels
as specified in a reference
data line beginning with the characters
.IR %x ;
By default,
.I x
is
.BR L .
.TP
.BI \-l m,n
Instead of numbering references, use labels
from the senior author's last
name and the year of publication.  Only the first
.I m
letters of the
last name and the last
.I n
digits of the date are used.  If either of
.I m
or
.I n
is omitted, the entire name or date, respectively, is used.
.TP
.BI \-p " filename"
Take the next argument as a file of references to be searched.  The
default file is searched last.
.TP
.BI \-s keys
Sort references by fields whose key-letters are in the
.I keys
string, and permute reference numbers in the text accordingly.
Using this option implies the
.B \-e
option.  The key-letters in
.I keys
may be followed by a number indicating how many such fields are used,
with a
.B +
sign taken as a very large number.  The default is
.SM
.BR AD\s0 ,
which sorts on the senior author and date.
To sort on all authors and
then the date, for instance, use the options
.RB  ` \-sA+T '.
.br
.ne 6
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/dict/papers
directory of default publication lists and indexes
.TP
.B /usr/lib/refer
directory of programs
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR addbib (1),
.BR eqn (1),
.BR indxbib (1),
.BR lookbib (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR roffbib (1),
.BR sortbib (1),
.BR tbl (1),
.BR troff (1)
