.\" @(#)rlogin.1c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH RLOGIN 1C "17 December 1987"
.SH NAME
rlogin \- remote login
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rlogin
[
.B \-L
]
[
.B \-8
] 
[
.BI \-e c
] [
.B \-l
.I username
]         
.\"[
.\".B \-7
.\"]
.if n .ti +0.5i
.I hostname
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rlogin command"  ""  "\fLrlogin\fP \(em remote login"
.IX  "remote login"  \fLrlogin\fP
.IX  login  "to remote machine"  ""  "to remote machine \(em \fLrlogin\fP"
.LP
.B rlogin
establishes a remote login session from
your terminal to the remote machine named
.IR hostname .
.LP
Hostnames are listed in the 
.I hosts 
database,
which may be contained in the
.B /etc/hosts
file, the
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
.I hosts
database,
the Internet domain name server,
or a combination of these.
Each host has one official name (the
first name in the database entry),
and optionally one or more nicknames.
Either official hostnames or nicknames may be specified in
.IR hostname .
.LP
Each remote machine may have a file named
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
containing a list of trusted hostnames
with which it shares usernames.
Users with the same username on both the local
and remote machine may 
.nh
.B rlogin 
.hy
from the
machines listed in the remote machine's
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
file without supplying a password.
Individual users
may set up a similar private equivalence list with the file
.B \&.rhosts
in their home directories.
Each line in this file contains two names: a
.I hostname
and a
.I username
separated by a 
.SM SPACE\s0.
An entry in a remote user's
.B \&.rhosts
file permits the user named
.I username
who is logged into
.I hostname
to rlogin to the remote machine as the remote user
without supplying a password.
If the name of the local host is not found in the 
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
file on the remote machine,
and the local username and hostname are not found in
the remote user's .rhosts file, then
the remote machine will prompt for a password.
Hostnames listed in 
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
and 
.B \&.rhosts
files must be the official hostnames listed in the hosts database;
nicknames may not be used in either of these files.
.LP
To counter security problems, the
.B \&.rhosts
file must be owned by
either the remote user or by root.
.LP
The remote terminal type is the same as your local
terminal type (as given in your environment
.SB TERM
variable).  The terminal or window size
is also copied to the remote system
if the server supports the option, and
changes in size are reflected as well.
All echoing takes place at the remote site, so that (except for
delays) the remote login is transparent.  Flow control using
.B ^S
(\s-1CTRL\s0-S)
and
.B ^Q
(\s-1CTRL\s0-Q)
and
flushing of input and output on interrupts are handled properly.
.SH ESCAPES
.LP
Lines that you type which start with the tilde
character are \*(lqescape sequences\*(rq (the
escape character can be changed using the
.B \-e
options):
.TP
.B \s+2~\s0\^.
Disconnect from the remote host \(em this is not the same as a logout,
because the local host breaks the connection with no warning to the
remote end.
.TP
.B \s+2~\s0susp
Suspend the login session (only if you are using the C shell).
.B susp
is your \*(lqsuspend\*(rq character, usually
.BR \^^Z ,
(\s-1CTRL\s0-Z),
see
.BR tty (1).
.TP
.B \s+2~\s0dsusp
Suspend the input half of the login,
but output will still be seen (only
if you are using the C shell).
.B dsusp
is your \*(lqdeferred suspend\*(rq character, usually
.BR \^^Y ,
(\s-1CTRL\s0-Y),
see
.BR tty (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-L
Allow the
.B rlogin
session to be run in \*(lqlitout\*(rq mode.
.TP 
.B \-8
Pass eight-bit data across the net instead of seven-bit data.
.\"This is the default.
.TP 
.BI \-e c
Specify a different escape character,
.IR c ,
for the line used to disconnect from the remote host.
.\".TP
.\" .BR \-7 5
.\"Pass seven-bit data across the net instead of eight-bit data.
.TP 
.BI \-l " username"
Specify a different
.I username
for the remote login.  If you do not use
this option, the remote username used is the
same as your local username.
.br
.ne 5
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/hosts/*
for the
.I hostname
version of the command
.TP
.B /etc/hosts.equiv	
list of trusted hostnames
with shared usernames
.TP
.B \s+2~\s0/.rhosts
private list of trusted hostname/username combinations
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rsh (1C),
.BR stty (1V),
.BR tty (1),
.BR ypcat (1),
.BR hosts (5),
.BR named (8C)
.SH BUGS
.LP
This implementation can only use the
.SM TCP
network service.
.LP
More of the environment should be propagated.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
