.\" @(#)rm.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH RM 1 "12 January 1988"
.SH NAME
rm, rmdir \- remove (unlink) files or directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rm
.RB [ " \- " ]
.RB [ " \-fir " ]
.IR filename \&.\|.\|.
.LP
.B rmdir
.IR directory .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rm command"  ""  "\fLrm\fP \(em remove file or directory"
.IX  "rmdir command"  ""  "\fLrmdir\fP \(em remove directory"
.IX  remove "file \(em \fLrm\fP"
.IX  remove "directory \(em \fLrmdir\fP command"
.IX  delete "file \(em \fLrm\fP"
.IX  delete "directory \(em \fLrmdir\fP command"
.IX  erase "file \(em \fLrm\fP"
.IX  erase "directory \(em \fLrmdir\fP command"
.IX  file  remove  ""  "remove \(em \fLrm\fP"
.IX  file  delete  ""  "delete \(em \fLrm\fP"
.IX  directory  "remove"  ""  "remove \(em \fLrmdir\fP command"
.IX  directory  "delete"  ""  "delete \(em \fLrmdir\fP command"
.LP
.B rm
removes (directory entries for) one or more files.
If an entry was the last link to the file, the contents of that
file are lost.  See
.BR ln (1V)
for more information about multiple links to files.
.LP
To remove a file, you must have write permission in its directory; but
you do not need read or write permission on the file itself.
If you do not have write permission on the file and the standard input
is a terminal,
.B rm
displays the file's permissions and waits for
you to type in a response.  If your response begins with
.B y
the file is deleted; otherwise the file is left alone.
.LP
.B rmdir
removes each named
.IR directory .
.B rmdir
only removes empty directories.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-
Treat the following arguments as filenames
.RB ` \- '
so that you can specify filenames starting with a minus.
.TP
.B \-f
Force files to be removed without displaying permissions, asking
questions or reporting errors.
.TP
.B \-i
Ask whether to delete each file, and, under
.BR \-r ,
whether to examine each directory.  Sometimes called the
.I interactive
option.
.TP
.B \-r
Recursively delete the contents of a directory,
its subdirectories, and the directory itself.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ln (1V),
.BR su (1V)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.RB ` "rm \ \-r" '
removes a directory and its files only if your real user
.SM ID
has write permission on that directory.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.BI "rm: " filename ": No such file or directory"
.I filename
does not exist.
.B rm
will also return false
.RB ( 1 )
if
.I filename
was not found.
.SH WARNING
.LP
It is forbidden to remove the file
.RB ` .\|. '
to avoid the antisocial consequences of
inadvertently doing something like
.RB ` "rm \ \-r \ .*" '.
