.\" @(#)roffbib.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH ROFFBIB 1 "18 February 1988"
.SH NAME
roffbib \- format and print a bibliographic database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B roffbib
[
.B \-e
] [
.B \-h
] [
.B \-m
.I filename
] [
.BI \-n p
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-o list
] [
.B \-Q
]
[
.BI \-r aN
] [
.BI \-s N
]
[
.BI \-T term
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-V
]
.if t .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-x
]
[
.I filename
] .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I Text
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "roffbib command"  ""  "\fLroffbib\fP \(em print bibliographic database"
.IX  "document production"  "roffbib command"  ""  "\fLroffbib\fP \(em print bibliographic database"
.IX  "print bibliographic database"  ""  "print bibliographic database \(em \fLroffbib\fP"
.IX  "bibliography"  roffbib  ""  "\fLroffbib\fP \(em print literature references"
.LP
.B roffbib
prints out all records in a bibliographic database,
in bibliography format rather than as footnotes or endnotes.
Generally it is used in conjunction with
.BR sortbib (1):
.IP
.B example% sortbib  database | roffbib
.SH OPTIONS
.B roffbib
accepts all options understood by
.BR nroff (1)
except
.B \-i 
and
.BR \-q .
.TP
.B \-e
Produce equally-spaced words in adjusted lines using full
terminal resolution.
.TP
.B \-h
Use output tabs during horizontal spacing to speed output and
reduce output character count.
.SM TAB
settings are assumed to be
every 8 nominal character widths.
.TP
.BI \-m " filename"
Prepend the macro file
.B /usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.name
to the input files.
There should be a space between the
.B \-m
and the macro filename.
This set of macros will replace the ones
defined in
.BR /usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.bib .
.TP
.BI \-n p
Number first generated page
.IR p .
.TP
.BI \-o list
Print only page numbers that appear in the comma-separated
.I list
of numbers and ranges.  A range
.IB N \- M
means pages
.I N
through
.IR M ;
an initial
.BI \- N
means from the beginning to page
.IR N ;
a final
.IB N \-
means from page
.I N
to end.
.TP
.B \-Q
Queue output for the phototypesetter.  Page offset is set to 1
inch.
.TP
.BI \-r aN
Set register
.I a
(one-character) to
.IR N .
The command-line argument
.B \-rN1
will number the references starting at 1.
.IP
Four command-line registers control formatting style
of the bibliography, much like the number registers of
.BR ms (7).
The flag
.B \-rV2
will double space the bibliography, while
.B \-rV1
will double space references but single space annotation paragraphs.
The line length can be changed from the default 6.5 inches
to 6 inches with the
.B \-rL6i
argument, and the page offset can be set from the default of 0
to one inch by specifying
.B \-rO1i
(capital O, not zero).
.TP
.BI \-s N
Halt prior to every
.I N
pages for paper loading or changing
(default
.IR N \|=1).
To resume, enter
.SM NEWLINE
or
.SM RETURN\s0.
.TP
.BI \-T term
Specify
.I term
as the terminal type.
.TP
.B \-V
Send output to the Versatec.  Page offset is set to 1 inch.
This option not available on Sun386i systems.
.TP
.B \-x
If abstracts or comments are entered following the
.B %X
field key,
.B roffbib
will format them into paragraphs for an annotated bibliography.
Several
.B %X
fields may be given if several
annotation paragraphs are desired.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.bib
file of macros used by
.B nroff/troff
.PD
.br
.ne 7
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR addbib (1),
.BR indxbib (1),
.BR lookbib (1),
.BR nroff (1)
.BR refer (1),
.BR sortbib (1),
.BR troff (1)
.LP
.TX DOCS
.SH BUGS
.LP
Users have to rewrite macros to create customized formats.
