.\" @(#)rsh.1c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.hw rlogin
.TH RSH 1C "17 December 1987"
.SH NAME
rsh \- remote shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rsh
[
.B \-l
.I username
] [
.B \-n
]
.I hostname
[
.I command
]
.br
.B rsh
.I hostname
[
.B \-l
.I username
] [
.B \-n
]
[
.I command
]
.LP
.I hostname
[
.B \-l
.I username
] [
.B \-n
]
[
.I command
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rsh command"  ""  "\fLrsh\fP \(em remote shell"
.IX  "remote shell"  ""  "remote shell \(em \fLrsh\fP"
.IX  shell  remote  shell  "remote \(em \fLrsh\fP"
.LP
.B rsh
connects to the specified
.I hostname
and executes the specified
.IR command .
.B rsh
copies its standard input to the remote command, the standard
output of the remote command to its standard output, and the
standard error of the remote command to its standard error.
Interrupt, quit and terminate signals are propagated to the remote
command;
.B rsh
normally terminates when the remote command does.
.LP
If you omit
.IR command ,
instead of executing a single command,
.B rsh
logs you in on the remote host using
.BR rlogin (1C).
.LP
Shell metacharacters which are not quoted are interpreted
on the local machine, while quoted metacharacters are interpreted on
the remote machine. See
.SM EXAMPLES\s0.
.LP
Hostnames are given in the 
.I hosts
database, which may be contained in the 
.B /etc/hosts
file,
the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
.I hosts 
database, the Internet domain name database,
or some combination of the three.
Each host has one official name (the first
name in the database entry)
and optionally one or more nicknames.
Official hostnames or nicknames may be given as
.IR hostname .
.LP
If the name of the file from which 
.B rsh
is executed is anything other than ``rsh,''
.B rsh 
takes this name as its
.I hostname
argument.
This allows you to create a symbolic link to
.B rsh
in the name of a host which, when executed, will invoke a remote
shell on that host.
The
.B /usr/hosts
directory is provided to be populated with symbolic links in the names
of commonly used hosts.
By including
.B /usr/hosts
in your shell's search path,
you can run
.B rsh
by typing 
.B hostname 
to your shell.
.LP
Each remote machine may have a file named
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
containing a list of trusted hostnames
with which it shares usernames.
Users with the same username on both the local and
remote machine may 
.B rsh
from the machines listed in the remote machine's
.B /etc/hosts
file.
Individual users may set up a similar private
equivalence list with the file
.B \&.rhosts
in their home directories.
Each line in this file contains two names: a
.I hostname
and a
.I username
separated by a
.SM SPACE\s0.
The entry permits the user named
.I username
who is logged into
.I hostname
to use
.B rsh
to access the remote machine as the remote user.
If the name of the local host is not found in the
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
file on the remote machine,
and the local username and hostname are not
found in the remote user's
.B \&.rhosts
file, then the access is denied.
The hostnames listed in the
.B /etc/hosts.equiv
and
.B \&.rhosts
files must be the official hostnames listed in the hosts database;
nicknames may not be used in either of these files.
.LP
.B rsh
will not prompt for a password if access is denied on the remote machine
unless the
.I command
argument is omited.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-l " username"
Use
.I username
as the remote username instead of your local username.  In the absence
of this option, the remote username is the same as your local username.
.TP
.B \-n
Redirect the input of
.B rsh
to
.BR /dev/null .
You sometimes need this option to avoid
unfortunate interactions between
.B rsh
and the shell which invokes it. 
For example, if you are running
.B rsh
and start a
.B rsh
in the background without redirecting its input
away from the terminal, it will block even if no reads
are posted by the remote command.  The
.B \-n
option will prevent this.
.LP
The type of remote shell
.RB ( sh ,
.BR rsh ,
or other) is determined by the user's
entry in the file
.B /etc/passwd
on the remote system.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following command appends the remote file 
.B lizard.file
from the machine called
.B lizard
to the file called
.B example.file
on the machine called
.BR example .
.IP
.B
example% rsh lizard cat lizard.file >> example.file
.LP
This example appends the file
.B lizard.file
on the machine called
.B lizard
to the file
.B another.lizard.file
which also resides on the machine called
.BR lizard .
.IP
.ft B
example%  rsh lizard cat lizard.file ">>" another.lizard.file
.ft R
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/hosts
.TP
.B /usr/hosts/*
.TP
.B /etc/passwd
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rlogin (1C),
.BR vi (1),
.BR ypcat (1),
.BR hosts (5),
.BR named (8C),
.BR rshd (8C)
.SH BUGS
.LP
You cannot run an interactive command (such as
.BR vi (1));
use
.B rlogin
if you wish to do so.
.LP
Stop signals stop the local
.B rsh
process only; this is arguably
wrong, but currently hard to fix for reasons too complicated to
explain here.
.LP
The current local environment is not passed to the remote shell.
.LP
Sometimes the
.B \-n
option is needed for reasons that are less than obvious.
For example, the command below puts your shell into a strange state.
.IP
.B
example% rsh somehost dd if=/dev/nrmt0 bs=20b | tar xvpBf \-
.LP
Evidently, what happens is
that the
.B tar
terminates before the
.BR rsh .
The
.B rsh
then tries to write into the \*(lqbroken pipe\*(rq and,
instead of terminating neatly,
proceeds to compete with your shell for its standard input.  Invoking
.B rsh
with the
.B \-n
option avoids such incidents.
.LP
Note: this bug occurs only when
.B rsh
is at the beginning of a pipeline and
is not reading standard input.
Do not use the
.B \-n
if
.B rsh
actually needs to read standard input.
For example, the following command
does not produce the bug. 
.IP
.B
example% tar cf \- . | rsh sundial dd of=/dev/rmt0 obs=20b
.LP
If you were to use the
.B \-n
in a case like this,
.B rsh
would incorrectly read from
.B /dev/null
instead of from the pipe.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
