.\" @(#)rusers.1c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH RUSERS 1C "17 December 1987"
.SH NAME
rusers \- who's logged in on local machines (RPC version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rusers
[
.B \-ahilu
] [
.IR host .\|.\|.
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rusers command"  ""  "\fLrusers\fP \(em who is logged in on local network"
.IX  "who is logged in on local network"  ""  "who is logged in on local network \(em \fLrusers\fP"
.IX  network  rusers  ""  "\fLrusers\fP \(em who is logged in on local network"
.IX  login  rusers  ""  "\fLrusers\fP \(em who is on local network"
.LP
The
.B rusers
command produces output similar to
.BR users (1)
and
.BR who (1),
but for remote machines.  It broadcasts on the local network,
and prints the responses it receives.
Normally, the listing is in the order that responses are received,
but this order can be
changed by specifying one of the options listed below.
When
.I host
arguments are given, rather than broadcasting
.B rusers
will only query the list of specified hosts.
.LP
The default is to print out a listing in the style of
.BR users (1)
with one line per machine.  When the
.B \-l
flag is given, a
.BR rwho (1C)
style listing is used.  In addition, if
a user has not typed to the system for a minute or more,
the idle time is reported.
.LP
A remote host will only respond if it is running the
.B rusersd
daemon, which is normally started up from
.BR inetd (8C).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Give a report for a machine even if
no users are logged on.
.TP
.B \-h
Sort alphabetically by host name.
.TP
.B \-i
Sort by idle time.
.TP
.B \-l
Give a longer listing in the style of
.BR who (1).
.TP
.B \-u
Sort by number of users.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/inetd.conf
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rwho (1C),
.BR users (1),
.BR who (1),
.BR inetd (8C),
.BR rusersd (8C)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Broadcasting does not work through gateways.
