.\" @(#)sccs-comb.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SCCS-COMB 1 "27 June 1988"
.SH NAME
sccs-comb, comb \- combine SCCS deltas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/sccs/comb 
[
.B \-os
] 
[
.BI \-c sid-list
] 
[
.BI \-p sid
] 
.if n .ti +0.5i
.I s.filename
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  comb  ""  "\fLcomb\fP \(em combine deltas"
.IX  "SCCS commands"  "comb command"  ""  "\fLcomb\fP \(em combine deltas"
.IX  "SCCS delta"  combine
.IX  delta  combine
.IX  "combine SCCS deltas"
.LP
.B comb
generates a shell script (see
.BR sh (1))
that you can use to reconstruct the indicated
.BR s. files.
This script is written to the standard output.
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the
.I s.filename
argument, the
.B comb
command applies to all
.BR s. files
in that directory.
Unreadable
.BR s. files
produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if
any).
The use of
.RB ` \- '
as the
.I s.filename
argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from the
standard input, one
.BR s. file 
per line.
.LP
If no options are specified,
.B comb
preserves only the most recent (leaf) delta in a branch, and the
minimal number of ancestors needed to preserve the history.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-o
For each
.RB ` "get \-e" '
generated, access the reconstructed file at
the release of the delta to be created.  Otherwise,
the reconstructed file is accessed at the most
recent ancestor.  The use of
.B \-o
may decrease the size of the reconstructed
.BR s.  file.
It may also alter the shape of the delta tree of the original file.
.TP
.B \-s
Generate scripts to gather statistics, rather than combining deltas.
When run, the shell scripts report: the file name, size (in blocks)
after combining, original size (also in blocks), and the percentage
size change, computed by the formula:
.RS
.RS
100 * ( \fIoriginal\fB \- \fIcombined\fB ) / \fIoriginal\fB
.RE
.RE
.IP
This option can be used to calculate the space that will be saved,
before actually doing the combining.
.TP
.BI \-c sid-list
Include the indicated list of deltas.  All other deltas are omitted.
.I sid-list
is a comma-separated list of
.SM SCCS
delta
.SM ID\s0s
(\s-1SID\s0s).
To specify a range of deltas, use a
.RB ` \- '
separator instead of a comma, between two
.SM SID\s0s
in the list.
.TP
.BI \-p \s-1SID\s0
The
.SM SID
of the oldest delta to be preserved.
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B s.\|\s-1COMB\s+1
reconstructed 
.SM SCCS
file
.TP
.B comb?????
temporary file
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-admin (1),
.BR sccs-cdc (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR sccs-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs-sccsdiff (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccsfile (5)
.LP
.TX PUL
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use the
.SM SCCS
.BR help
command for explanations
.RB ( sccs-help (1)).
.SH BUGS
.B comb
may rearrange the shape of the tree of deltas.
It may not save any space; in fact, it is possible for the reconstructed file to
actually be larger than the original.
