.\" @(#)sccs-sact.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SCCS-SACT 1 "30 June 1988"
.SH NAME
sccs-sact, sact \- show editing activity status of an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/sccs/sact
.I s.filename .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  display "SCCS file editing status \(em \fLsact\fP"
.IX  "SCCS commands"  sact  ""  "\fLsact\fP \(em display SCCS file editing status"
.LP
.B sact
informs the user of any
.SM SCCS
files that are checked out for editing.
.LP
The output for each named file consists
of five fields separated by
.SM SPACE
characters.
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 3
\(bu
.SM SID
of a delta that currently exists in the
.SM SCCS
file, to which changes will be made to make the new delta
.TP
\(bu
.SM SID
for the new delta to be created
.TP
\(bu
Username of the person who has the file checked out for editing.
.TP
\(bu
Date that the version was checked out.
.TP
\(bu
Time that the version was checked out.
.PD
.RE
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the
.IR s.filename
argument, the
.B sact
command applies to all
.BR s. files
in that directory.
Unreadable
.BR s. files
produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if
any).
The
use of
.RB ` \- '
as the
.I s.filename
argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from
the
standard input, one
.BR s. file
per line.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-get (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccsfile (5)
.LP
.TX PUL
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use the
.SM SCCS
.B help
command for explanations (see
.BR sccs-help (1)).
.SH BUGS
.B sact
is not recognized as a subcommand of
.BR sccs (1).
