.\" @(#)sccs-get.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SCCS-GET 1 "28 June 1988"
.SH NAME
sccs-get, get \- retrieve a version of an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/sccs/get
[
.B \-begkmnpst
] [
.BR \-l \|[\| p \|]\|] 
[
.BI \-a sequence
]
.if n .ti +5
[
.BI \-c date-time
]
[
.BI \-G g-file
]
[
.BI \-i sid-list
]
[
.BI \-r sid
]
.if n .ti +5
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.BI \-x sid-list
] 
.I s.filename
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "get command"  ""  "\fLget\fP \(em get SCCS file"
.IX "SCCS commands"  "get command"  ""  "\fLget\fP \(em get SCCS file"
.B get
retrieves a working copy from the 
.SM SCCS
history file,
according to the specified options.
.LP
For each
.I s.filename
argument,
.B get
displays the 
.SM SCCS
delta
.SM ID
(\s-1SID\s0)
and number of lines retrieved.
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the
.I s.filename
argument, the
.B get
command applies to all
.BR s. files
in that directory.
Unreadable
.BR s. files
produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if
any).
The
use of
.RB ` \- '
as the
.I s.filename
argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from the
standard input, one
.BR s. file
per line.
.LP
The retrieved file normally has the same filename base as the
.BR s. file,
less the prefix, and is  referred to as the
.BR g- file.
.LP
For each file processed,
.B get
responds (on the standard output) with the
.SM SID
being accessed, and with the number of lines retrieved from the
.BR s. file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Create a new branch.  Used with the
.B \-e
option to indicate that the new delta should have an
.SM SID
in a new branch.  Instead of incrementing the
level for version to be checked in,
.B get
indicates in the
.BR p. file
that the delta to be checked in should either initialize a new
branch and sequence (if there is no existing branch at the
current level), or increment the branch component of the
.SM SID\s0.
If the
.B b
flag is not set in the
.BR s. file,
this option is ignored.
.TP
.B \-e
Retrieve a version for editing.
With this option,
.B get
places a lock on the
.BR s. file,
so that no one else can check in changes to the version 
you have checked out.
If the
.B j
flag is set in the
.BR s. file,
the lock is advisory:
.BR get
issues a warning message.
Concurrent use of
.RB ` "get  \-e" '
for different
.SM SID\s0s
is allowed, however,
.BR get
will not check out a version of the file if a writable version
is present in the directory.  All
.SM SCCS
file protections stored in the
.BR s. file,
including the release ceiling, floor, and authorized user list,
are honored by
.RB ` "get \-e" '.
.TP
.B \-g
Get the
.SM SCCS
version ID, without retrieving the version itself.
Used to verify the existence of a particular
.SM SID\s0.
.TP
.B \-k
Suppress expansion of ID keywords.
.B \-k
is implied by the
.BR \-e .
.TP
.B \-m
Precede each retrieved line with the
.SM SID
of the delta in which it was added to the file.  The
.SM SID
is separated from the line with a
.SM TAB.
.TP
.B \-n
Precede each line with the
.B %\&M%
ID keyword and a
.SM TAB.
When both the
.B \-m
and
.B \-n
options are used, the ID keyword
precedes the
.SM SID\s0,
and the line of text.
.TP
.B \-p
Write the text of the retrieved version to the standard output.
All messages that normally go to the standard output are written
to the standard error instead.
.TP
.B \-s
Suppress all output normally written on the standard output.
However, fatal error messages (which always go to the standard error)
remain unaffected.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B \-t
Retrieve the most recently created (top) delta in a given release
(for example:
.BR \-r1 ).
.TP
.BR \-l \|[\| p \|]
Retrieve a summary of the delta table (version log) and write it to a
listing file, with the
.RB ` l. '
prefix (called
.RB ` l. file').
When
.B \-lp
is used, write the summary onto the standard output.
.TP
.BI \-a \|sequence
Retrieve the version corresponding to the indicated delta sequence
number.  This option is used primarily by the
.SM SCCS
.B comb
command (see
.BR sccs-comb (1));
for users,
.B \-r
is an easier way to specify a version.
.B \-a
supercedes
.BR \-r
when both are used.
.TP
.BI \-c date-time
Retrieve the latest version checked in prior to the date and time
indicated by the
.I date-time
argument.
.I date-time
takes the form:
.IR yy [ mm [ dd [\c
.IR hh [ mm [ ss ]\|]\|]\|]\|].
Units omitted from the indicated date and time default to their maximum
possible values; that is
.B \-c7502
is equivalent to
.BR \-c750228235959 .
Any number of non-numeric characters may separate
the various 2 digit components.  If white-space characters occur, the
.I date-time
specification must be quoted.
.TP 
.BI \-G newname
Use
.I newname
as the name of the retrieved version.
.TP
.BI \-i sid-list
Specify a list of deltas to include in the retrieved version.
The included deltas are noted in the standard output message.
.I sid-list
is a comma-separated list of
.SM SID\s0s.
To specify a range of deltas, use a 
.RB ` \- ' 
separator instead of a comma, between two 
.SM SID\s0s 
in the list.
.TP
.BI \-r sid
Retrieve the version corresponding to the indicated
.SM SID
(delta).
.IP
The
.SM SID
for a given delta is a number, in Dewey decimal format, composed
of two or four fields: the
.I release
and
.IR level
fields, and for branch deltas, the
.IR branch
and
.IR sequence
fields.  For instance, if
.BR 1.2
is the
.SM SID\s0,
.B 1
is the release,
and
.B 2
is the level number.  If
.BR 1.2.3.4
is the
.SM SID\s0,
.B 3
is the branch and
.B 4
is the sequence number.
.IP
You need not specify the entire
.SM SID
to retrieve a version with
.BR get .
When you omit
.B \-r
altogether, or when you omit both release and level,
.B get
normally retrieves the highest release and level.  If the
.B d
flag is set to an
.SM SID
in the
.BR s. file
and you omit the
.SM SID\s0,
.B get
retrieves the default version indicated by that flag.
.IP
When you specify a release but omit the level,
.B get
retrieves the highest level in that release.  If that release
does not exist,
.BR get
retrieves highest level from the next-highest existing release.
.IP
Similarly with branches, if you specify a release, level and
branch,
.B get
retrieves the highest sequence in that branch.
.TP 
.BI \-x sid-list
Exclude the indicated deltas from the retrieved version.
The excluded deltas are noted in the standard output message.
.I sid-list
is a comma-separated list of
.SM SID\s0s.
To specify a range of deltas, use a 
.RB ` - ' 
separator instead of a comma, between two 
.SM SID\s0s 
in the list.
.SH USAGE
.SS ID Keywords
In the absence of
.B \-e
or
.BR \-k ,
.B get
expands the following ID keywords by replacing them with the
indicated values in the text of the retrieved source.
.PD 0
.TP 12
.I Keyword
.I Value
.sp .5
.TP
.B %\&A%
Shorthand notation for an
.SM ID
line with data for
.BR what (1):
.B %\&\s-1Z\s0%%\&\s-1Y\s0%\ %\&\s-1M\s0%\ %\&\s-1I\s0%%\&\s-1Z\s0%
.TP
.B %\&B%
.SM SID
branch component
.TP
.B %\&C%
Current line number.
Intended for identifying messages
output by the program such as
.RI `` "this shouldn't have happened" ''
type errors.  It is
.I not
intended to be used on every line to provide sequence numbers.
.TP
.B %\&D%
Current date:
.IB yy / mm / dd
.TP
.B %\&E%
Date newest applied delta was created:
.IB yy / mm / dd
.TP
.B %\&F%
.SM SCCS
.BR s. file
name
.TP
.B %\&G%
Date newest applied delta was created:
.IB mm / dd / yy
.TP
.B %\&H%
Current date:
.IB mm / dd / yy
.TP
.B %\&I%
.SM SID
of the retrieved version:
.B %\&\s-1R\s0%.%\&\s-1L\s0%.%\&\s-1B\s0%.%\&\s-1S\s0%
.TP
.B %\&L%
.SM SID
level component
.TP
.B %\&M%
Module name: either the value of the
.B m
flag in the
.BR s. file
(see
.BR sccs-admin (1)),
or the name of the
.BR s. file
less the prefix
.TP
.B %\&P%
Fully qualified
.BR s. file
name
.TP
.B %\&Q%
Value of the
.B q
flag in the
.BR s. file
.TP
.B %\&R%
.SM SID
Release component
.TP
.B %\&S%
.SM SID
Sequence component
.TP
.B %\&T%
Current time:
.IB hh : mm : ss
.TP
.B %\&U%
Time the newest applied delta was created:
.IB hh : mm : ss
.TP
.B %\&W%
Shorthand notation for an
.SM ID
line with data for
.BR what :
.B %\&\s-1Z\s0%%\&\s-1M\s0%\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ %\&\s-1I\s0%
.TP
.B %\&Y%
Module type: value of the
.B t
flag in the
.BR s. file
.TP
.B %\&Z%
4-character string:
.RB ` @(#) ',
recognized by
.BR what .
.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
``g-file''
version retrieved by
.B get
.TP
.BI l. file
file containing extracted delta table info
.TP
.BI p. file
permissions (lock) file
.TP
.BI z. file
temporary copy of
.BI s. file
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-admin (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR sccs-sact (1),
.BR sccs-unget (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccsfile (5)
.LP
.TX PUL
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use the
.SM SCCS
.B help
command for explanations
.RB ( sccs-help (1)).
.SH BUGS
If the effective user has write permission (either explicitly or
implicitly) in the directory containing the
.SM SCCS
files, but the real user does not, only one file may be named when using
.BR \-e .
