.\" @(#)sccs-cdc.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SCCS-CDC 1 "27 June 1988"
.SH NAME
sccs-cdc, cdc \- change the delta commentary of an SCCS delta
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/sccs/cdc
.BI \-r sid
[
.BI \-m mr-list
]
[
.B \-y
[
.I comment
] ]
.I s.filename
\&\.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  cdc  ""  "\fLcdc\fP \(em change delta commentary"
.IX  "SCCS commands"  "cdc command"  ""  "\fLcdc\fP \(em change delta commentary"
.IX  "SCCS delta"  "change commentary"
.IX  "delta"  "change commentary"
.IX  "change"  "delta commentary"
.LP
.B cdc
annotates the delta commentary for the
.SM SCCS
delta ID
(\s-1SID\s0)
specified by the
.B \-r
option in each named
.BR s. file.
.LP
If the
.B v
flag is set in the
.BR s. file,
you can also use
.B cdc
to update the Modification Request
(\s-1MR\s0)
list.
.LP
If you checked in the delta,
or, if you own the file and directory and have write permission,
you can use
.B cdc
to annotate the commentary.
.LP
Rather than replacing the existing commentary,
.B cdc
inserts the new comment you supply, followed by a line of the form:
.IP
.B "*** \s-1CHANGED\s0 ***
.IB yy / mm / dd
.IB hh / mm / ss
.I username
.LP
above the existing commentary.
.LP
If a directory is named as the
.I s.filename
argument, the
.B cdc
command applies to all
.BR s. files
in that directory.
Unreadable
.BR s. files
produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if any).
If
.RB ` \- '
is given as the
.I s.filename
argument, each line of the standard input is taken as the name of an
.SM SCCS
history file to be processed, and the
.B \-m
and
.B \-y
options must be used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-r sid
Specify the
.SM SID
of the delta to change.
.TP 
.BI \-m mr-list
Specify one or more MR numbers to add or delete.
When specifying more than one MR on the command line,
.I mr-list
takes the form of a quoted, space-separated list.
To delete an MR number, precede it with a
.B !
character (an empty
.SM MR
list has no effect).
A list of deleted
.SM MR\s0s
is placed in the comment section of the delta commentary.
If
.B \-m
is not used and the standard input is a terminal,
.B cdc
prompts with
.B \s-1MR\s0s?
for the list (before issuing the
.B comments?
prompt).
.B \-m
is only useful when the
.B v
flag is set in the
.BR s. file.
If that flag has a value, it is
taken to be the name of a program to validate the MR numbers.  If
that validation program returns a non-zero exit status,
.B cdc
terminates and the delta commentary remains unchanged.
.HP
.B \-y\c
.RI [ comment ]
Use
.I comment
as the annotation in the delta commentary.
The previous comments are retained; the
.I comment
is added along with a notation that the commentary was changed.
A 
null
.I comment
leaves the commentary unaffected.
If
.B \-y
is not specified and the standard input is a terminal,
.B cdc
prompts with
.BR  comments?
for the text of the notation to be added.  An unescaped
.SM NEWLINE
character terminates the annotation text.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following command:
.RS
.ft B
.nf
example% cdc \-r1.6 \-y"corrected commentary" s.program.c
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
produces the following annotated commentary for delta 1.6 in
.BR s.program.c :
.IP
.ft B
.nf
D 1.6 88/07/05 23:21:07 username 9 0 00001/00000/00000
MRs:
\s-1COMMENTS\s0:
corrected commentary
*** \s-1CHANGED\s0 *** 88/07/07 14:09:41 username
performance enhancements in main()
.fi
.ft
.br
.ne 5
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.BI z. file
temporary lock file
.PD
.br
.ne 5
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-admin (1),
.BR sccs-comb (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR sccs-rmdel (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccsfile (5)
.LP
.TX PUL .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use the
.SM SCCS
.B help
command for explanations
.RB ( sccs-help (1)).
