.\" @(#)sccs-delta.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SCCS-DELTA 1 "19 December 1989"
.SH NAME
sccs-delta, delta \- make a delta to an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/sccs/delta
[ 
.B \-nps
]
[ 
.BI \-g sid-list
]
[
.BI \-m mr-list
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-r sid
]
[
.B \-y\c
.RI [ comment ]
]
.I s.filename
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX delta "make SCCS delta \(em \fLdelta\fR"
.IX create "delta \(em \fLdelta\fR"
.IX create  "SCCS delta \(em \fLdelta\fR"
.IX make  "delta, SCCS \(em \fLdelta\fR"
.IX make  "SCCS delta \(em \fLdelta\fR"
.IX "SCCS delta" "create \(em \fLdelta\fR"
.LP
.B delta
checks in a record of the line-by-line differences made to a
checked-out version of a file under
.SM SCCS
control.  These changes are taken from the writable working
copy that was retrieved using the
.SM SCCS
.B get
command (see
.BR sccs-get (1)).
This working copy does not have the
.RB ` s. '
prefix, and is also referred to as a
.BR g -file.
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the
.IR s.filename ,
argument, the
.B delta
command applies to all
.BR s. files
in that directory.
Unreadable
.BR s. files
produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if
any).
The
use of
.RB ` \- '
as the
.I s.filename
argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from the
standard input, one
.BR s.file 
per line (requires
.BR \-y ,
and in some cases,
.BR \-m ).
.LP
.B delta
may issue prompts on the standard output depending upon
the options specified and the flags that are set in the
.BR s. file
(see
.BR sccs-admin (1),
and the
.B \-m
and
.B \-y
options below, for details).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-n
Retain the edited
.BR g -file,
which is normally removed at the completion of processing.
.TP
.B \-p
Display line-by-line differences (in
.BR diff (1)
format) on the standard output.
.TP
.B \-s
Silent.  Do not display warning or confirmation messages.  Do
not suppress error messages (which are written to standard error).
.TP
.BI \-g sid-list
Specify a list of deltas to omit when the file is accessed at the
.SM SCCS
version
.SM ID
(\s-1SID\s0)
created by this delta.
.I sid-list
is a comma-separated list of
.SM SID\s0s.
To specify a range of deltas, use a
.RB ` \- '
separator instead of a comma, between two
.SM SID\s0s
in the list.
.TP
.B \-m\fR\|[\|\fImr-list\fR\|]
If the SCCS file has the
.B v
flag set (see
.BR sccs-admin (1)),
you must supply one or more Modification Request (MR) numbers
for the new delta.
When specifying more than one MR number on the command line,
.I mr-list
takes the form of a quoted, space-separated list.
If
.B \-m
is not used and the standard input is a terminal,
.B delta
prompts with
.B \s-1MR\s0s?
for the list (before issuing the
.B comments?
prompt).
If the
.B v
flag in the
.BR s. file
has a value, it is
taken to be the name of a program to validate the MR numbers.
If
that validation program returns a non-zero exit status,
.B delta
terminates without checking in the changes.
.TP
.BI \-r sid
When two or more versions are checked out, specify the version
to check in.
This
.SM SID
value can be either the
.SM SID
specified on the
.B get
command line, or the
.SM SID
of the new version to be checked in
as reported by
.BR get .
A diagnostic results if the specified
.SM SID
is ambiguous, or if one is required but not supplied.
.HP
.B \-y\c
.RI [ comment ]
.br
Supply a comment for the delta table (version log).  A
null
comment is accepted, and produces an empty commentary in the log.  If
.B \-y
is not specified and the standard input is a terminal,
.B delta
prompts with
.RB ` comments? '.
An unescaped
.SM NEWLINE
terminates the comment.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BI d. file
temporary file of differences
.TP
.BI p. file
lock file for a checked-out version
.TP
.BI q. file
temporary file
.TP
.BI s. file
.SM SCCS
history file
.TP
.BI x. file
temporary copy of the
.BR s. file
.TP
.BI z. file
temporary file
.PD
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
Lines beginning with an
.SM ASCII SOH
character (binary 001) cannot be placed in the
.SM SCCS
file unless the
.SM SOH
is escaped.  This character has special meaning to
.SM SCCS
(see
.BR sccsfile (5))
and produces an error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-admin (1),
.BR sccs-cdc (1),
.BR sccs-get (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR sccs-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs-unget (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccsfile (5)
.LP
.TX PUL
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use the
.SM SCCS
.B help
command for explanations
.RB ( sccs-help (1)).
