.\" @(#)sccs-val.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH SCCS-VAL 1 "30 June 1988"
.SH NAME
sccs-val, val \- validate an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/sccs/val \-
.LP
.B /usr/sccs/val
[
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-m 
.I name
]
[
.BI \-r sid
]
[
.B \-y
.I type
]
.I s.filename .\|.\|.
.IX  "val command"  ""  "\fLval\fP \(em validate SCCS file"
.IX  "validate SCCS file"  ""  "validate SCCS file \(em \fLval\fP"
.IX  "SCCS commands"  val  ""  "\fLval\fP \(em validate SCCS file"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B val
determines if the specified
.BR s. files
files meet the characteristics specified by the indicated
arguments.
.B val
can process up to 50 files on a single command line.
.LP
.B val
has a special argument,
.RB ` \- ',
which reads the standard input until the end-of-file condition
is detected.
Each line read is independently processed
as if it were a command line argument list.
.LP
.B val
generates diagnostic messages on the
standard output for each command line
and file processed and also returns a single 8\-bit
code upon exit as described below.
.LP
The 8-bit code returned by
.B val
is a disjunction of the possible errors,
that is, it can be interpreted as a bit
string where (moving from left to right)
the bits set are interpreted as follows:
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
bit 0 = missing file argument
bit 1 = unknown or duplicate option
bit 2 = corrupted \fBs.\fRfile
bit 3 = can not open file or file not in \fBs.\fRfile format
bit 4 = the \s-1SCCS\s0 delta \s-1ID\s0 (\s-1SID\s0) is invalid or ambiguous
bit 5 = the \s-1SID\s0 does not exist
bit 6 = mismatch between \fB%\&Y%\fR and \fB\-y\fR argument
bit 7 = mismatch between \fB%\&M%\fR \fB\-m\fR argument
.fi
.RE
.LP
.B val
can process two or more files on a given command line, and in turn can
process multiple command lines (when reading the standard input).
In these cases, an aggregate code is returned which is the logical
.SB OR
of the codes generated for each command line and file processed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-s
Silent.  Suppress the normal error or warning messages.
.TP
.BI \-m  name
Compare
.I name
with the
.B %\&M%
ID keyword in the
.BR s. file.
.TP
.BI \-r sid
Check to see if the indicated
.SM SID
is ambiguous, invalid, or absent from the
.BR s. file.
.TP
.BI \-y " type"
Compare
.I type
with the
.B %\&Y%
ID keyword.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-admin (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-get (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccsfile (5)
.LP
.TX PUL
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Use the
.SM SCCS
.B help
command for explanations (see
.BR sccs-help (1)).
