.\" @(#)sccs-prt.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SCCS-PRT 1 "30 June 1988"
.SH NAME
sccs-prt, prt \- display delta table information from an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/sccs/prt
.RB [ "\-abdefistu" ]
[
.BI \-c date-time
] [
.BI \-r date-time
] [
.BI \-y sid
]
.I s.filename .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "prt command" "" "\fLprt\fP \(em display SCCS history"
.IX "SCCS commands" "prt command" "" "\fLprt\fP \(em display SCCS history"
.LP
.B prt
prints selected portions of an
.SM SCCS
file.  By default, it prints the delta table (version log).
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the
.IR s.filename
argument, the
.B prt
command applies to all
.BR s. files
in that directory.
Unreadable
.BR s. files
produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if
any).
The
use of
.RB ` \- '
as the
.I s.filename
argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from
the
standard input, one
.BR s. file
per line.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
If any option other than
.BR \-y ,
.BR \-c ,
or
.B \-r
is supplied, the name of each file being processed (preceded by one
.SM NEWLINE
and followed by two
.SM NEWLINE
characters) appears above its contents.
.LP
If none of the
.BR \-u ,
.BR \-f ,
.BR \-t ,
or
.B \-b
options are used,
.B \-d
is assumed.
.BR \-s ,
.BR \-i
are mutually exclusive, as are
.B \-c
and
.BR \-r .
.TP
.B \-a
Display log entries for all deltas, including those marked as removed.
.TP
.B \-b
Print the body of the
.BR s. file.
.TP
.B \-d
Print delta table entries.  This is the default.
.TP
.B \-e
Everything.  This option implies
.BR \-d ,
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-u ,
.BR \-f ,
and
.BR \-t .
.TP
.B \-f
Print the flags of each named
.BR s. file.
.TP
.B \-i
Print the serial numbers of included,
excluded, and ignored deltas.
.TP
.B \-s
Print only the first line of the delta table entries;
that is, only up to the statistics.
.TP
.B \-t
Print the descriptive text contained in the
.BR s. file.
.TP
.B \-u
Print the user-names and/or numerical group
.SM ID\s0s
of users allowed to make deltas.
.TP
.BI \-c date-time
Exclude delta table entries
that are specified cutoff date and time.
Each entry is printed as a single line, preceded by the name of the
.SM SCCS
file.  This format (also produced by
.B \-r ,
and
.BR \-y  )
makes it easy to sort multiple delta tables in chronological order.
When both
.B \-y
and
.BR \-c ,
or
.B \-y
and
.B \-r
are supplied,
.B prt
stops printing when the first of the two conditions is met.
.TP
.BI \-r date-time
Exclude delta table entries
that are newer than the specified cutoff date and time.
.TP
.BI \-y sid
Exclude delta table entries made prior to the
.SM SID
specified.  If no delta in the table has the specified
\s-1SID\s0,
the entire table is printed.  If no
.SM SID
is specified, the most recent delta is printed.
.SH USAGE
.SS Output Format
.LP
The following format is used to print those portions of the
.BR s. file
that are specified by the various options.
.RS
.PD 0v
.TP 3
\(bu
.SM NEWLINE
.TP
\(bu
Type of delta
.RB ( D
or
\fBR\fP)
.TP
\(bu
.SM SPACE\s0
.TP
\(bu
.SM SCCS
delta 
.SM ID
(\s-1SID\s0)
.TP
\(bu
.SM TAB\s0
.TP
\(bu
Date and time of creation in the form:
.IB yy / mm / dd
.IB hh / mm / ss
.TP
\(bu
.SM SPACE\s0
.TP
\(bu
Username the delta's creator
.TP
\(bu
.SM TAB\s0
.TP
\(bu
Serial number of the delta
.TP
\(bu
.SM SPACE\s0
.TP
\(bu
Predecessor delta's serial number
.TP
\(bu
.SM TAB\s0
.TP
\(bu
Line-by-line change statistics in the form:
.IB inserted / deleted / unchanged
.TP
\(bu
.SM NEWLINE\s0
.TP
\(bu
List of included deltas, followed by a
.SM NEWLINE
(only if there were any such deltas and the
.B \-i
options was used)
.TP
\(bu
List of excluded deltas, followed by a
.SM NEWLINE
(only if there were any such deltas and the
.B \-i
options was used)
.TP
\(bu
List of ignored deltas, followed by a
.SM NEWLINE
(only if there were any such deltas and the
.B \-i
options was used)
.TP
\(bu
List of
modification requests
(\s-1MR\0s), followed by a
.SM NEWLINE
(only if any
.SM MR
numbers were supplied).
.TP
\(bu
Lines of the delta commentary (if any), followed by a
.SM NEWLINE\s0.
.PD
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
The command:
.IP
.B /usr/sccs/prt \-y program.c
.LP
produces a one-line display of the delta table entry for the most
recent version:
.IP
.BR "s.program.c:  D 1.6   88/07/06 21:39:39 username   5 4 00159/00080/00636" " .\|.\|.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-cdc (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-get (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-sact (1),
.BR sccs-sccsdiff (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccsfile (5)
.LP
.TX PUL
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use the
.SM SCCS
.B help
command for explanations
.RB ( sccs-help (1)).
