.\" @(#)sccs-admin.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH SCCS-ADMIN 1 "19 December 1989"
.SH NAME
sccs-admin, admin \- create and administer SCCS history files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/sccs/admin
[
.B \-bhnz
] [
.BI \-a username\c
.RI | groupid
] \&.\|.\|.
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-d flag
] \&.\|.\|.
[
.BI \-e username\c
.RI | groupid
] \&.\|.\|.
.if t .ti +0.5i
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-f flag
[
.I value
]\|] \&.\|.\|.
[
.B \-i
[
.I filename
]\|]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.BR "\-l a" |\c
.IR release [\c
.BI , release\c
\&.\|.\|.\|]
] [
.B \-m
.I mr-list
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-r release
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.B \-t
[
.I description-file
]\|]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-y\c
.RI [ comment ]\|]
.I s.filename
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  admin  ""  "\fLadmin\fP \(em administer SCCS"
.IX  "SCCS commands"  "admin command"  ""  "\fLadmin\fP \(em administer SCCS"
.IX  create  "SCCS data bases"
.LP
.B admin
creates or modifies the flags and other parameters of
.SM SCCS
history files.  Filenames of
.SM SCCS
history files begin with the
.RB ` s. '
prefix, and are referred to as
.BR s. files ,
or ``history'' files.
.LP
The named
.BR s. file
is created if it does not exist already.
Its parameters are initialized or modified according to the
options you specify.  Parameters not specified are given default
values when the file is initialized, otherwise they remain unchanged.
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the
.IR s.filename
argument,
the
.B admin
command applies to all
.BR s. files
in that directory.  Unreadable
.BR s. files
produce an error.  The use of
.RB ` \- '
as the
.I s.filename
argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from the
standard input, one
.BR s. file 
per line.  
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Force encoding of binary data.  Files that
contain
.SM ASCII NUL
or other control characters, or that do not end with a
.SM NEWLINE,
are recognized as binary data files.  The contents of such files are
stored in the history file in encoded form.  See
.BR uuencode (1C)
for details about the encoding.  This option
is normally used in conjunction with
.BR \-i
to force
.B admin
to encode initial versions not recognized as containing binary data.
.TP
.B \-h
Check the structure of an existing
.BR s. file
(see
.BR sccsfile (5)),
and compare a newly computed check-sum with one stored
in the first line of that file.
.B \-h
inhibits writing on the file; and so nullifies the effect of any
other options.
.TP
.B \-n
Create a new 
.SM SCCS
history file.
.TP
.B \-z
Recompute the file check-sum and store it in the first
line of the
.BR s. file.
Caution:  it is important to verify the contents of the
history file (see
.BR sccs-val (1),
and the
.B print
subcommand in
.BR sccs (1)),
since using
.B \-z
on a truly corrupted file may prevent detection of the error.
.HP
.BI \-a username\c
.RI | groupid
.br
Add a user name, or a numerical group
.SM ID\s0,
to the list of users who may check deltas in or out.
If the list is empty, any user is allowed to do so.
.TP
.BI \-d flag
Delete the indicated
.I flag
from the
.SM SCCS
file.  The
.B \-d
option may be specified only for existing s.files.
See
.B \-f
for the list of recognized flags.
.HP
.BI \-e username\c
.RI | groupid
.br
Erase a user name or group
.SM ID
from the list of users allowed to make
deltas.
.HP
.BI \-f flag
.RI [ value ]
.br
Set the indicated
.IR flag
to the (optional)
.I value
specified.  The following flags are recognized:
.RS
.RS
.TP
.B b
Enable branch deltas.  When
.B b
is set, branches can be created using the
.B \-b
option of the
.SM SCCS
.B get
command
(see
.BR sccs-get (1)).
.TP
.BI c ceil
Set a ceiling on the releases that can be checked out.
.I ceil
is a number less than or equal to 9999.
If
.B c
is not set, the ceiling is 9999.
.TP
.BI f floor
Set a floor on the releases that can be checked out.
The floor is a number greater than 0 but less than
9999.  If
.B f
is not set, the floor is 1.
.TP
.BI d sid
The default delta number, or 
.SM SID,
to be used by an
.SM SCCS
.BR get
command.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B i
Treat the
.RB ` "No id keywords (ge6)" '
message issued by an
.SM SCCS
.BR get
or
.BR delta
command as an error rather than a warning.
.TP
.B j
Allow concurrent updates.
.TP
.B la
.PD 0
.HP
.B l\c
.I release\c
.RB [ ,\c
.IR release \|.\|.\|.\|]
.br
.PD
Lock the indicated list of releases against deltas.  If
.B a
is used, lock out deltas to all releases.
An
.SM SCCS
.RB ` "get \-e" '
command fails when applied against a locked release.
.TP
.B n
Create
empty releases when releases are skipped.  These null (empty) deltas
serve as anchor points for branch deltas.
.TP
.BI q value
Supply a 
.I value
to which the
.B %\&Q%
keyword is to expand when a read-only version is retrieved with the
.SM SCCS
.BR get
command.
.TP
.BI m module
Supply a value for the module name to which the
.B %\&M%
keyword is to expand.
If the
.B m
flag is not specified, the value
assigned is the name of the SCCS file with the leading
.B s.
removed.
.TP
.BI t type
Supply a value for the module type
to which the
.B %\&Y%
keyword is to expand.
.TP
.BI v\fR\|[ \|program\fR\|]
Specify a validation
.I program
for the
.SM MR
numbers associated with a new delta.
The optional
.I program
specifies the name of an
.SM MR
number validity checking
.IR program .
If this flag is set when creating an
.SM SCCS
file, the
.B \-m
option must also be used, in which case the list of
.SM MRs
may be empty.
.RE
.RE
.TP
.BI \-i\fR\|[\fP filename\fR]
Initialize the history file with text from the indicated file.
This text constitutes the initial delta, or set of checked-in
changes.
If
.I filename
is omitted, the initial text is obtained from the standard input.
Omitting the
.B \-i
option altogether creates an empty
.BR s. file.
You can only initialize one
.BR s. file
with text using
.BR \-i .
This option implies the
.B \-n
option.
.TP
.BR "\-la"
.PD 0
.HP
.B \-l\c
.IR release [\c
.BI , release\c
\&.\|.\|.\|]
.br
Unlock the specified releases so that deltas can be checked in.  If
.B a
is specified, allow deltas to be checked in for all releases.
.PD
.TP
.BI \-m\fR\|[\| mr-list\fR\|]
Insert the indicated Modification Request (\s-1MR\s0) numbers into the
commentary for the initial version.
When specifying more than one MR number on the command line,
.I mr-list
takes the form of a quoted, space-separated list.
A warning results if the
.B v
flag is not set or the
.SM MR
validation fails.
.TP
.BI \-r release
Specify the release for the initial delta.
.B \-r
may be used only in conjunction with
.BR \-i .
The initial delta is inserted into release 1 if this option is
omitted.  The level of the initial delta is always 1;
initial deltas are named 1.1 by default.
.TP
.BI \-t\fR\|[\fP description-file\fR]
Insert descriptive text from the file
.IR description-file .
When 
.B \-t
is used in conjunction with
.BR \-n ,
or
.BR \-i
to initialize a new s.file, the
.I description-file
must be supplied.
When modifying the description for an existing file:
a
.B \-t
option without a
.I description-file
removes the descriptive text, if any;
a
.B \-t
option with a
.I description-file
replaces the existing text.
.TP
.BI \-y\fR\|[\|\fP comment\fR\|]
Insert the indicated
.I comment
in the ``Comments:''
field for the initial delta.  Valid only in conjunction with
.B \-i
or
.BR \-n .
If
.B \-y
option is omitted, a default
comment line is inserted that notes the date and time the
history file was created.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B s.*
history file
.TP
.B \s-1SCCS\s0/s.*
history file in
.SM SCCS
subdirectory
.TP
.B z.*
temporary lock file
.PD
.SH WARNINGS
The last component of all 
.SM SCCS
filenames must have the
.RB ` s. '
prefix.
New 
.SM SCCS
files are given mode 444 (see
.BR chmod (1V)).
All writing done by
.B admin
is to a temporary file with an
.B x.
prefix, created with mode 444 for a new
.SM SCCS
file, or with the same mode as an existing
.SM SCCS
file.  After successful execution of
.BR admin ,
the existing
.B s.
file is removed and replaced with the 
.BR x. file.
This ensures that changes are made to the 
.SM SCCS
file only when no errors have occurred.
.LP
It is recommended that directories containing 
.SM SCCS
files have permission mode 755,
and that the 
.BR s. files
themselves have mode 444.
The  mode for directories allows only the owner to modify the
.SM SCCS
files contained in the directories, while
the mode of the 
.BR s. files
prevents all modifications except those performed using
.SM SCCS
commands.
.LP
If it should be necessary to patch an 
.SM SCCS
file for any reason,
the mode may be changed to 644 by the owner to allow use of a text
editor.  However, extreme care must be taken when doing this.
The edited file should
.I always
be processed by an
.RB ` "admin \-h" '
to check for corruption, followed by an
.RB ` "admin \-z" '
to generate a proper check-sum.  Another
.RB ` "admin \-h" '
is recommended to ensure that the resulting
.BR s. file
is valid.
.LP
.B admin
also uses a temporary lock
.BR s. file,
starting with the
.RB ` z. '
prefix, to prevent simultaneous updates to the
.BR s. file.
See
.BR sccs-get (1)
for further information about the
.RB ` z. file'.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-cdc (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-get (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs-val (1),
.BR sccsfile (5)
.LP
.TX PUL .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Use the
.SM SCCS
.B help
command for explanations (see
.BR sccs-help (1)).
