.\" @(#)screenload.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SCREENLOAD 1 "23 November 1987"
.SH NAME
screenload \- load a frame-buffer image from a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B screenload
.RB [ " \-bgnw " ]
.RB [ " \-dopr " ]
.RB [ " \-f "
.IR frame-buffer " ]"
.if n .ti 5n
.RB [ " \-h "
.IR "count data " ".\|.\|. ]"
.RB [ " \-i "
.IR color " ]"
.RB [ " \-xyXY "
.IR value " ]"
.if n .ti 5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.RI [ " filename " ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "screenload command"  ""  "\fLscreenload\fP \(em load frame buffer image"
.IX  "restore frame buffer image"  ""  "restore frame buffer image \(em \fLscreenload\fP"
.IX  "load frame buffer image"  ""  "load frame buffer image \(em \fLscreenload\fP"
.LP
.B screenload
reads a Sun standard rasterfile (see
.BR rasterfile (5))
and displays it on a frame-buffer.
.B screenload
is able to display monochrome images on a color display, but cannot
display color images on a monochrome display.  If the input file
contains a color image, a frame-buffer has not been explicitly
specified, and
.B /dev/fb
is a monochrome frame-buffer,
.B screenload
looks for a color frame-buffer with one of the standard device names.
.LP
If the image contained in the input file is larger than the actual
resolution of the display,
.B screenload
clips the right and bottom
edges of the image.  If the input image is smaller than the
display (for example, loading an 1152-by-900 image on a 1600-by-1280
high resolution display),
.B screenload
centers the image on the display surface and fills the border
area with solid black (by default).  Various options may be used to
change the image location, or to change or disable the fill pattern.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.BI \-b
Fill the border area with a pattern of solid ones (default).  On a
monochrome display this results in a black border; on a color display
the color map value selected by the
.B \-i
option determines the
border color.
.TP
.BI \-g
Fill the border area with a pattern of \*(lqdesktop grey\*(rq.
On a monochrome display this results in
a border matching the default background pattern used
by SunView; on a color display the color map value
selected by the
.B \-i
option determines the foreground border
color, though the pattern is the same as on a monochrome display.
.TP
.BI \-n
Do not fill the border area.
.TP
.BI \-w
Fill the border area with a pattern of solid zeros.
On a monochrome display
this results in a white border; on a color display the color map value
at index 0 determines the border color.
.TP
.BI \-d
Print a warning message if the display size does not match the
rasterfile image size.
.TP
.BI \-o
Load the image on the overlay plane of the display (ignored if the
display does not have an overlay plane).
.TP
.BI \-p
Wait for a
.SM NEWLINE
to be typed on the standard input before exiting.
.TP
.BI \-r
Reverse the foreground and background of the output image.
Useful when loading a screendump made from a reverse video screen.
.TP
.BI \-f " frame-buffer"
Display the image on the specified frame-buffer device (default
.BR /dev/fb ).
.TP
.BI \-h " count data .\|.\|."
Fill the border area with the bit pattern described by the following
.I count
16-bit hexadecimal constants.  Note: a \*(lq1\*(rq bit is black and a
\*(lq0\*(rq bit is white on the monochrome display; on a color display the
color map value selected by the
.B \-i
option determines the border
foreground color.  The number of hex constants in the pattern is
limited to 16.
.TP
.BI \-i " color"
Fill the border area with the given color value (default 255).
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-x " value"
.TP
.BI \-y " value"
.PD
Set the x or y coordinate of the upper left corner of the image on the
display to the given value.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-X " value"
.TP
.BI \-Y " value"
.PD
Set the maximum width or height of the displayed image to the given value.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The command:
.IP
.B example% screenload saved.display.image
.LP
loads the raster image contained in the file
.B saved.display.image
on the display type indicated by the rasterfile header in that file.
.LP
The command:
.IP
.B example% screenload \-f /dev/cgtwo monochrome.image
.LP
reloads the raster image in the file
.B monochrome.image
on the color frame-buffer device
.BR /dev/cgtwo .
.LP
The command:
.IP
.B example% screenload \-h1 ffff small.saved.image
.LP
is equivalent to the
.B \-b
option (fill border with black), while
.IP
.B
example% screenload \-h4 8888 8888 2222 2222 small.saved.image
.LP
is equivalent to the
.B \-g
option (fill border with desktop grey).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 24
.B /usr/lib/rasfilters/*
filters for non-standard rasterfile formats
.TP
.B /dev/fb
default frame buffer device
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rasfilter8to1 (1),
.BR rastrepl (1),
.BR screendump (1),
.BR screenload (1)
.LP
.TX PIXRCT
