.\" @(#)screenblank.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SCREENBLANK 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
screenblank \- turn off the screen when the mouse and keyboard are idle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B screenblank
.RB [ " \-m " ]
.RB [ " \-k " ]
.RB [ " \-d "
.IR "interval " ]
.RB [ " \-e "
.IR "interval " ]
.RB [ " \-f "
.IR "frame-buffer " ]
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "screenblank command" "" "\fLscreenblank\fR \(em turn of idle screen"
.LP
.B screenblank
turns off the display when the mouse and keyboard are idle
for an extended period (the default is 10 minutes).
.B screenblank
will continue to run until killed by hand,
using 
.RB ` "kill"
.IR processid '.
.LP
Place the
.B screenblank
command in your
.B /etc/rc.local
file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-m
Do not check whether the mouse has been idle.
.TP
.B \-k
Do not check whether the keyboard has been idle.
.TP
.BI \-d " interval"
Disable after
.I interval
seconds.
.I interval
is a number of the form
.IB xxx . xxx
where each
.I x
is a decimal digit.   The default is 600 seconds (10 minutes).
.TP
.BI \-e " interval"
Enable within
.I interval
seconds.
.I interval
is the time between successive polls for keyboard or mouse
activity.  If a poll detects keyboard or
mouse activity, the display is resumed.
.I interval
is a number of seconds, of the form
.IB xxx . xxx
where each
.I x
is a  decimal digit.  The default is 0.25 seconds.
.TP
.BI \-f " frame-buffer"
.I frame-buffer
is the path name of the frame-buffer on which video disabling/enabling
applies.  The defaults is
.BR /dev/fb .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/fb
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lockscreen (1),
.BR sunview (1)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B screenblank
only checks 
.B /dev/console
for activity; it does not check non-window programs from 
.B /dev/tty
which bypass
.B /dev/console .
Consequently,
.B screenblank
will turn off the display if
.B /dev/tty
programs (for example, pixrect-based programs) are
the only ones running.
.LP
When not running
.BR sunview (1),
only the
.SM RETURN
key resumes video display.
