.\" @(#)screendump.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SCREENDUMP 1 "8 September 1988"
.SH NAME
screendump \- dump a frame-buffer image to a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B screendump
.RB [ " \-cCeo " ]
.RB [ " \-f "
.IR frame-buffer " ]"
.RB [ " \-t "
.IR type " ]"
.RB [ " \-xyXY "
.IR value " ]"
.RI [ " filename " ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "screendump command"  ""  "\fLscreendump\fP \(em dump frame buffer image"
.IX  "dump frame buffer image"  ""  "dump frame buffer image \(em \fLscreendump\fP"
.LP
.B screendump
reads the contents of a frame buffer and writes the display image to
.I filename
(the default is the standard output ) in Sun standard
rasterfile format.
.LP
If the frame buffer has both an overlay plane and color planes,
.B screendump
examines the overlay enable plane and tries to make the output file
represent what is visible on the screen.  It maps the overlay plane
foreground and background colors into the closest values present in the
color map for the color planes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-c
Dump the frame-buffer contents directly without making a temporary copy
in a memory pixrect.  Saves time and memory but lengthens the time the
frame-buffer must be inactive to guarantee a consistent screen dump.
.TP
.B \-C
Dump the frame-buffer color planes only (ignored if the
display does not have color planes).
.TP
.B \-e
Set the output rasterfile type to 2,
.SM RT_BYTE_ENCODED\s0.
For most images this saves a significant amount
of space compared to the standard format.
.TP
.B \-o
Dump the frame-buffer overlay plane only (ignored if the
display does not have an overlay plane).
.TP
.BI \-f " frame-buffer"
Dump the specified frame-buffer device (default is
.BR /dev/fb ).
.TP
.BI \-t " type"
Set the output rasterfile type (default 1,
.SM RT_STANDARD\s0).
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-x " value"
.TP
.BI \-y " value"
.PD
Set the x or y coordinate of the upper left corner of the area to be
dumped to the given value.
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-X " value"
.TP
.BI \-Y " value"
.PD
Set the width or height of the area to be dumped to the given value.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The command:
.IP
.B example% screendump save.this.image
.LP
writes the current contents of the console frame buffer into the file
.BR save.this.image ,
.LP
while the command:
.IP
.B example% screendump \-f /dev/cgtwo save.color.image
.LP
writes the current contents of the color frame buffer
.B /dev/cgtwo
into the file
.BR save.color.image .
.LP
The command:
.IP
.B example% screendump  |  lpr \-Pversatec \-v
.LP
sends a rasterfile containing the current
frame-buffer to the lineprinter,
selecting the printer
.B versatec
and the
.B v
output filter
(see
.BR /etc/printcap ).
The printer must support an appropriate imaging model such as
PostScript in order to print the image.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 24
.B /usr/lib/rasfilters/*
filters for non-standard rasterfile formats
.TP
.B /dev/fb
default frame buffer device
.TP
.B /etc/printcap
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lpr (1),
.BR rasfilter8to1 (1),
.BR rastrepl (1),
.BR screenload (1)
.LP
.TX PIXRCT
.SH BUGS
The output file or the screen may be corrupted if the frame-buffer
contents are modified while the dump is in progress.
