.\" @(#)sdiff.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2 6.2
.TH SDIFF 1V "17 September 1989"
.SH NAME
sdiff \- contrast two text files by displaying them side-by-side
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sdiff
[
.B \-l
] [
.BI \-o " outfile"
] [
.B \-s
] [
.BI \-w " n"
]
.I filename1
.I filename2
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "sdiff command"  ""  "\fLsdiff\fP \(em side-by-side compare"
.IX files  "side-by-side compare"
.IX compare  "files side-by-side"
.B sdiff
uses the output of
.BR diff -b
to produce a side-by-side listing of two files indicating those
lines that are different.
Each line of the two files is printed with a blank gutter between them
if the lines are identical, a
.B <
in the gutter
if the line only exists in
.IR filename1 ,
a
.B >
in the gutter
if the line only exists in
.IR filename2 ,
and a
.B |
for lines that are different.
See
.SM EXAMPLES\s0.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-w "  n"
Use
.IR n
as the width of the output line.
The default line length is 130 characters.
.TP
.B \-l
Only print the left side of any identical lines.
.TP
.BR \-s
Silent.  Do not print identical lines.
.TP
.BI \-o "  outfile"
Use the next argument,
.IR output ,
as the name of an output file created as
an interactively controlled merging of
.I filename1
and
.IR filename2 .
Identical lines of
.I filename1
and
.I filename2
are copied to
.IR output .
Sets of differences, as produced by
.BR diff ,
are printed; where a set of differences share a
common gutter character.
After printing each set of differences,
.B sdiff
prompts with a
.B %
and waits for you to type one of the following commands:
.RS
.TP
.B l
Append the
left column to the output file.
.TP
.B r
Append the
right column to the output file.
.TP
.B s
Turn on silent mode; do not print identical lines.
.TP
.B v
Turn off silent mode.
.TP
.B e l
Call the
.BR ed (1)
with the left column.
.TP
.B e r
Call
.BR ed (1)
with the right column.
.TP
.B e b
Call
.BR ed (1)
with the concatenation of left and right columns.
.TP
.B e
Call
.BR ed (1)
with a zero length file.
.IP
On exit from
.BR ed (1),
the resulting file is concatenated to the named output file.
.TP
.B q
Exit from the program.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
A sample output of
.B sdiff
would look like this:
.RS
.IP
.nf
.ft B
.cs B 20
     x    |    y
     a         a
     b    <
     c    < 
     d         d
          >    c
.fi
.cs B
.ft R
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR diff (1),
.BR ed (1)
