.\" @(#)set_alarm.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; 
.TH SET_ALARM 1 "30 September 1989"
.SH NAME
set_alarm, get_alarm, ring_alarm \- SunView programmable alarms
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B set_alarm
[
.B \-b
.I number
] 
[
.B \-f
.I number
] 
[ 
.B \-d
.I duration
]
.LP
.B get_alarm
.LP
.B ring_alarm
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I SunView User's
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for more information on how to 
install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "set_alarm" "" "\fLset_alarm\fR \(em SunView programmable alarms"
.IX "get_alarm" "" "\fLset_alarm\fR \(em SunView programmable alarms"
.IX "ring_alarm" "" "\fLset_alarm\fR \(em SunView programmable alarms"
.IX "programmable alarms" "" "SunView programmable alarms \(em \fLset_alarm\fR"
.LP
.B set_alarm
sets the
.SB WINDOW_ALARM
environment variable according to the options specified.
.LP
.B get_alarm
returns the setting of
.SB WINDOW_ALARM
in the form:
.IP
.BI \s-1WINDOW_ALARM\s0= setting
.LP
.B ring_alarm
performs the actual beeping and flashing of the alarm.
Note: the
occurrence of the alarm is controlled by the 
.B SunView/Visible_Bell
and
.B SunView/Audible_Bell
settings in
.BR defaultsedit (1).
If either of these is disabled,
the respective feature of the alarm will not occur,
regardless of how it is specified by 
.BR \s-1WINDOW_ALARM\s0 .
.LP
In the C shell,
.B set_alarm
echoes the following command to set the
.SB WINDOW_ALARM
environment variable:
.IP
.BI "set noglob;setenv \s-1WINDOW_ALARM\s0 " setting ";unset noglob;"
.LP
In the Bourne shell,
.B set_alarm
echos the following:
.IP
.BI "export \s-1WINDOW_ALARM;WINDOW_ALARM\s0=" setting ;
.LP
Consequently, 
.B set_alarm
is should be used as follows:
.IP
.BI "eval `set_alarm \fR[" options\fR]\fB`
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.BI \-b " number"
Specify the number of beeps.
The default is 1.
.TP
.BI \-f " number"
Specify the number of flashes.
The default is 1.
.TP
.BI \-d " duration"
Specify the duration of the beep in milliseconds.
The default is 1000.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
The SunView programmable alarms use the
.SB WINDOW_ALARM
environment variable to define the characteristics of the alarm.
The variable is set with a string argument of the following form:
.IP
.BI :beeps= b :flashes= f :dur= t\fB: 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR csh (1),
.BR defaultsedit (1),
.BR sh(1)
.LP
.TX SVBG
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B "get_alarm:  the \s-1WINDOW_ALARM\s0 environment variable is \s-1NULL\s0."
This message is self-explanatory.
.TP
.B "ring_alarm: \s-1WINDOW_ALARM\s0 is \s-1NULL\s0; using default values."
.B set_alarm
was not used to set values
for the
.SM WINDOW_ALARM
environment variable.
See
.SM OPTIONS
for default values.
.TP
.B "ring_alarm: \s-1WINDOW_ME\s0 not found"
Attempted to ring the alarm when
SunView is not running.
.SH BUGS and LIMITATIONS
.LP
The user must be running SunView 
in order to ring the alarm; consequently,
the alarms cannot be used with Open Windows.
