.TH SIZE 1 "18 February 1988"
.\" @(#)size.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.SH NAME
size \- display the size of an object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B size
[
.I object-file .\|.\|.
]
.SH Sun386i SYNOPSIS
.BR /usr/bin/size
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-o ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.I filename .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "size command"  ""  "\fLsize\fP \(em find object file size"
.IX  find "object file size"  ""  "find object file size \(em \fLsize\fP"
.IX  "programming tools"  size  ""  "\fLsize\fP \(em find object file size"
.IX  "object file"  size  ""  "\fLsize\fP \(em find object file size"
.B size
prints the (decimal) number of bytes required by the text, data, and
bss portions, and their sum in hex and decimal, of each
.I object-file
argument.  If no file is specified,
.B a.out
is used.
.SH Sun386i DESCRIPTION
The Sun386i version of the System V compatibility package includes
.BR /usr/bin/size ,
which allows the System V options to be used, and creates the same
output as the System V
.BR size (1)
command; it
produces section size information in bytes for each 
loaded section in
.SM COFF
files.
The size of the text, data, and bss (uninitialized data) sections is
printed, as well as the sum of the sizes of these sections.  If an
archive file is given, it displays the information for all archive
members.
.SH Sun386i OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-n
Includes
.SB NOLOAD
sections in the size.
.TP
.B \-f 
Produces full output, that is, it prints 
the size of every loaded section, followed by the section name
in parentheses.
.TP
.B \-o
Print numbers in octal, instead of the default which is decimal.
.TP
.B \-x
Print numbers in hexadecimal.
.TP
.B \-V
Supply version information.
.SH "Sun386i DIAGNOSTICS"
.TP
.BI "size: " name ": cannot open"
.I name
cannot be read.
.TP
.BI "size: " name ": bad magic"
.I name
is not an appropriate common object file.
.SH "Sun386i WARNINGS"
Since the size of bss sections is not known until
link-edit time, this command
does not give the true total
size of pre-linked objects.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cc (1V),
.BR size (1),
.BR a.out (5),
.BR ar (5),
.BR coff (5)
