.\" @(#)snap.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; 
.TH SNAP 1 "19 February 1988"
.SH NAME
snap \- SunView application for system and network administration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snap
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "snap command" "" "\fLsnap\fR command"  
.B snap 
simplifies the execution of a variety of system administration tasks in 
the user-friendly environment of a SunView window. 
.B snap
eases the following tasks: personal or centralized backup and restoration 
of files, management of users accounts and user groups, 
software installation, network administration, and management of
devices such as printers, terminals, modems, and the peripheral box containing
disk and tape drives.
.PP
Anyone can use
.BR snap ,
but the operations allowed
depend on the secondary group membership of the user at the time that
snap is invoked.  There are four secondary user groups specifically 
recognized by 
.BR snap , 
membership in which bestows various powers over the corresponding 
area of system administration. These are:
.TP 10
.B accounts
users and user groups.
.TP
.B devices
printers, terminals, modems, and peripheral box.
.TP
.B operator
centralized backup and restoration of files, and installation of software.
.TP
.B networks
domains and systems, including the New User Accounts feature and
Automatic System Installation features.
.LP
A user's
.B snap
privileges depend upon which of these four groups he or she belongs to.
If they get an account through New User Accounts, or if an administrator
adds them using the defaults, new users become 
members of the primary group
.IR users ,
and are given all
.B snap
privileges. This can be changed by changing the secondary group membership
of the primary group
.I users
with 
.BR snap .
Note: this does not change the 
group membership of existing users, but only of new users.
The secondary group membership of existing users must be changed individually.
.SS Accounts
.LP
An administrator using
.B snap
can create new user accounts and remove existing ones, change a user's
.B snap
privileges, and control users' access to their accounts.
New users can create their own accounts as they first login if the
New User Accounts feature is activated as described under Networks below.
.SS Devices
.LP
Epson and Epson-like printers (most printers using the Centronics parallel 
interface), text serial printers, and HP Laserjet and compatible printers 
can be administered with
.B snap .  
The supported terminal types are 
.B vt-100 
and 
.B wyse. 
The supported modem types
are Hayes Smartmodem or a modem that is compatible with Hayes Smartmodem. 
For all other types of terminals, modems, or printers, the software must 
be configured manually. See
.TX ADMIN
for details.
.LP
.B snap
can add or remove, display and change
information about, or disable or enable either a printer, a terminal, a 
modem, or the peripheral box containing disk and tape drives. 
Devices not added using
.B snap
can not be manipulated with
.BR snap .
.br
.ne 5
.SS Operator
.LP
Regardless of the primary or secondary group membership of users, they
can backup and restore their own files with 
.BR snap .
.LP
Backup and removal of all files can be done by members of the
.B operator
group.
.br
.ne 5
.SS Networks
.LP
Much of the network setup must be done when the first machine in the network,
the master server, is started up, and when each client is connected and booted
for the first time. Some of this information can never be changed.
.LP
Once the master and slave servers are installed,
.B snap
can be used to add and assign diskless clients to servers, remove them,
modify their network roles,
and perform all the functions listed above under Accounts, Devices, and Operator
on any system in the network.
.LP
If desired, you can also enable or disable the feature that allows a user to 
create his own
account while logging in (New User Accounts), and the automatic system installation feature, two possible security loopholes.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.I "Sun386i System and Network Administration
.br
.TX ADMIN
