.\" @(#)spell.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SPELL 1 "8 June 1988"
.SH NAME
spell, hashmake, spellin, hashcheck \- report spelling errors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B spell
[
.B \-blvx
] [
.B \-d
.I hlist
] [
.B \-h
.I spellhist
] [
.B \-s
.I hstop
] [
.BI + local_file
] [
.I filename
] .\|.\|.
.LP
.B /usr/lib/spell/hashmake
.LP
.B /usr/lib/spell/spellin
.I n
.LP
.B /usr/lib/spell/hashcheck
.I spelling_list
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "spell command"  ""  "\fLspell\fP \(em check spelling"
.IX  "hashmake command"  ""  "\fLhashmake\fP \(em check spelling"
.IX  "spellin command"  ""  "\fLspellin\fP \(em check spelling"
.IX  "hashcheck command"  ""  "\fLhashcheck\fP \(em check spelling"
.IX  "check spelling"  ""  "check spelling \(em \fLspell\fP"
.IX  "document production"  spell  ""  "\fLspell\fP \(em check spelling"
.IX  "text processing utilities"  spell  ""  "\fLspell\fP \(em check spelling"
.LP
.B spell
collects words from the named files, and looks them up in a hashed
spelling list.
Words that do not appear in the list, or cannot be
derived from those that do appear
by applying certain inflections, prefixes or suffixes, are displayed
on the standard output.
.LP
If there are no
.I filename
arguments, words to check are collected from the standard input.
.B spell
ignores most
.BR troff (1),
.BR tbl (1),
and
.BR eqn (1)
constructs.
Copies of all output words are accumulated in the history file, and a
.I stop
list filters out misspellings (for example, their=thy\-y+ier) that
would otherwise pass.
.LP
By default,
.B spell
(like
.BR deroff (1))
follows chains of included files
.RB ( .so
and
.B .nx
.BR troff (1)
requests),
.I unless
the names of such included files begin with
.BR /usr/lib .
.LP
If a
.BI + local_file
argument is specified, words found in
.I local_file
are removed from
.BR spell 's
output.
.I local_file
is the name of a user-provided file that contains a sorted list of words,
one per line.
With this option, the user can
specify a set of words
that are correct spellings (in addition to
.BR spell 's
own spelling list)
for each job.
.LP
The standard spelling list is based on many sources,
and while more haphazard than
an ordinary dictionary, is also more
effective in respect to proper names
and popular technical words.
Coverage of the specialized vocabularies of
biology, medicine and chemistry is light.
.LP
Three programs help maintain and check the hash lists used by
.IR spell :
.TP 12
.B hashmake
Reads a list of words from the standard input and
writes the corresponding nine-digit hash code on the standard output.
.TP
.B spellin
Reads
.I n
hash codes from the standard input and writes a compressed spelling list on the
standard output.
.TP
.B hashcheck
Reads a compressed
.I spelling_list
and recreates the nine-digit hash codes for all the words in it;
it writes these codes on the standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B \-b
Check British spelling.  Besides preferring
\*(lqcentre\*(rq,
\*(lqcolour\*(rq,
\*(lqprogramme\*(rq,
\*(lqspeciality\*(rq,
\*(lqtravelled\*(rq,
and so on, this option insists upon
.I -ise
in words like
.IR standardize ,
despite what Fowler and the
.SM OED
say.
.TP
.B \-l
Follow the chains of
.I all
included files.
.TP
.B \-v
Print all words not literally in the spelling list, as well as plausible
derivations from spelling list words.
.TP
.B \-x
Print every plausible stem with
.RB ` = '
for each word.
.TP
.BI  \-d " hlist"
Use the file
.I hlist
as the hashed spelling list.
.TP
.BI \-h " spellhist"
Place misspelled words with a user/date stamp in file
.IR spellhist .
.TP
.BI  \-s " hstop"
Use
.I hstop
as the hashed stop list.
.br
.ne 5
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/spell/hlist[ab]
hashed spelling lists, American & British
.TP
.B /usr/lib/spell/hstop
hashed stop list
.TP
.B /usr/lib/spell/spellhist
history file
.TP
.B /usr/lib/spell/spellprog
program called by the
.B /usr/bin/spell
shell script
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR deroff (1),
.BR sed (1V),
.BR sort (1V),
.BR tee (1)
.br
.ne 8
.SH BUGS
.LP
The spelling list's coverage is uneven;
new installations may wish to monitor the output for several months
to gather local additions.
.LP
British spelling was done by an American.
.SH NOTES
.LP
Misspelled words can be monitored by default by setting the
.SB H_SPELL
variable in
.B /usr/bin/spell
to the name of a file that has permission mode 666.
'br
.ne 10v
.LP
.B spell
works only on English
words defined in the
.SM "US ASCII"
codeset.
