.\" @(#)stty_from_defaults.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH STTY_FROM_DEFAULTS 1 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
stty_from_defaults \- set terminal editing characters from the defaults database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stty_from_defaults
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.TX SVBG 
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "stty_from_defaults command" "" "\fLstty_from_defaults\fR \(em set terminal from SunView defaults"
.LP
.B stty_from_defaults
is a utility provided with the
.I SunView
environment.
.LP
.B stty_from_defaults
sets the three editing characters (to erase a
character, erase a word, and kill a line) according
to the choices in your defaults database.
It does not set any other tty options.
If you run
.BR stty (1V)
in your
.B \&.login
or
.B rc.local
files, you may want to run
.B stty_from_defaults
immediately after
it.
This will override any settings of
.IR stty erase ,
.IR stty werase ,
or
.IR stty kill ,
so that you will have the same
character-editing behavior with SunView
application programs.
.LP
To specify the editing characters
.B stty_from_defaults
will set, run
.BR defaultsedit (1)
and select the "Text" category.
The editing characters are called Edit_back_char, Edit_back_word,
and Edit_back_line.
Type the value you want to the right of each item.
To specify
.SM CTRL\s0-X,
type
.RB ` \^X '\(em
that is, the three characters
.RB ` \e ',
.RB ` ^ ',
and
.RB ` X '.
To specify
.SM DEL\s0,
type
.RB ` \^? '.
.LP
If you do not specify your own values, the default values are
.SM DEL\s0,
.RB \s-1CTRL\s0 -W ,
and
.RB \s-1CTRL\s0 -U ,
respectively.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR defaultsedit (1),
.BR stty (1V),
.BR sunview (1)
.LP
.TX SVBG
