.\" @(#)stty.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH STTY 1V "2 October 1989"
.SH NAME
stty \- set or alter the options for a terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stty
[
.B \-ag
]
[
.I option 
] .\|.\|.
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/stty
[
.B \-ag
]
[
.I option 
] .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "stty command" "" "\fLstty\fR command"  
.IX  set "terminal characteristics \(em \fLstty\fP"
.IX  terminal  "set characteristics"  ""  "set characteristics \(em \fLstty\fP"
.IX  "tty, set characteristics \(em \fLstty\fP"
.LP
.B stty
sets certain terminal
.SM I/O
options for the device that is the current standard output.
Without arguments, it reports the settings of certain terminal
options for the device that is the standard output; the settings are
reported on the standard error.
.LP
Detailed information about the modes listed
in the first five groups below may be found in
.BR termio (4).
Options in the last group are implemented using options in the previous
groups.
Note: many combinations of options make no sense, but no sanity
checking is performed.
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B stty
sets or reports terminal options for the device that is
the current standard input; the settings are
reported on the standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B \-a
Report all of the option settings.
.TP
.B \-g
Report current settings in a form that can be used as an argument
to another
.B stty
command.
.SS Special Requests
.TP 12
.B speed
The terminal speed alone is printed on the standard output.
.TP
.B size
The terminal (window) sizes are printed on the standard output,
first rows and then columns.
.IP
.B size
and
.B speed
always report on the settings of 
.BR /dev/tty ,
and always report the settings to the standard output.
.SS Control Modes
.TP 12
.RB [ \- ] parenb
Enable parity generation and detection.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
disable parity checking.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] parodd
Select odd parity.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
select even parity.
.TP
.B "cs5 cs6 cs7 cs8"
Select character size.
.TP
.B 0
Hang up phone line immediately.
.TP
.B "50 75 110 134 150 200 300 600 1200 1800 2400 4800 9600 19200 exta 38400 extb"
Set terminal baud rate to the number given, if possible.
(Not all speeds are supported by all hardware interfaces.)
.TP
.RB [ \- ] hupcl
Hang up connection on last close.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not hang up connection.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] hup
Same as
.BR hupcl .
.TP
.RB [ \- ] cstopb
Use two stop bits per character.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
use one stop bit per character.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] cread
Enable the receiver.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
disable the receiver.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] clocal
Assume a line without modem control.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
assume a line with modem control.
.SS Input Modes
.TP 12
.RB [ \- ] ignbrk
Ignore break on input.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not ignore a break on input.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] brkint
Signal
.SB SIGINT
on break.  With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not signal.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] ignpar
Ignore parity errors.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not ignore parity errors.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] parmrk
Mark parity errors
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not mark parity errors.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] inpck
Enable input parity checking.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
disable input parity checking.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] istrip
Strip input characters to seven bits.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not strip input characters.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] inlcr
Map
.SM NEWLINE
to
.SM RETURN
on input.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not map on input.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] igncr
Ignore
.SM RETURN
on input.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not ignore
.SM RETURN
on input.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] icrnl
Map
.SM RETURN
to
.SM NEWLINE
on input.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not map.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] iuclc
Map upper-case alphabetics to lower case on input.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not map.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] ixon
Enable
.BR \s-1START\s0 / \s-1STOP\s0
output control.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
disable output control.
When enabled, output is stopped by sending a
.SB STOP
character and started by sending a
.SB START
character.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] ixany
Allow any character to restart output.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
only restart with a
.SB START
character.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] decctlq
Same as
.BR \-ixany .
.TP
.RB [ \- ] ixoff
Request that the system send
.BR \s-1START\s0 / \s-1STOP\s0
characters when the input queue is nearly empty/full.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
request that the system not send
.BR \s-1START\s0 / \s-1STOP\s0
characters.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] tandem
Same as
.BR ixoff .
.TP
.RB [ \- ] imaxbel
Request that the system send a
.SM BEL
character to your terminal, and not to flush the input queue,
if a character received when the input queue is full.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
request that it flush the input queue and not send a
.SM BEL
character.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] iexten
Enable all SunOS special characters, such as word erase.
With a 
.RB ` \- ',
enable only the
.SM POSIX
subset of special characters
.RB ( \s-1INTR\s0 ,
.BR \s-1QUIT\s0 ,
.BR \s-1ERASE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1KILL\s0 ,
.BR \s-1EOF\s0 ,
.BR \s-1NL\s0 ,
.BR \s-1EOL\s0 ,
.BR \s-1SUSP\s0 ,
.BR \s-1STOP\s0 ,
.BR \s-1START\s0 ,
and
.BR  \s-1CR\s0 ).
.SS Output Modes
.TP 12
.RB [ \- ] opost
Post-process output.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not post-process output; ignore all other output modes.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] olcuc
Map lower-case alphabetics to upper case on output.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not map.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] onlcr
Map
.SM NEWLINE
to
.SM RETURN-NEWLINE
on output.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not map.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] ocrnl
Map
.SM RETURN
to
.SM NEWLINE
on output.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not map.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] onocr
Do not place
.SM RETURN
characters at column zero.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do place
.SM RETURN
characters
at column zero.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] onlret
On the terminal
.SM NEWLINE
performs the
.SM RETURN
function.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
.SM NEWLINE
does not perform the
.SM RETURN
function.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] ofill
Use fill characters for delays.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
use timing for delays.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] ofdel
Fill characters are
.SM DEL
characters.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
fill characters are
.SM NUL
characters.
.TP
.B "cr0 cr1 cr2 cr3"
Select style of delay for
.SM RETURN
characters.
.TP
.B "nl0 nl1"
Select style of delay for
.SM LINEFEED
characters.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B "tab0 tab1 tab2 tab3"
Select style of delay for horizontal
.SM TAB
characters.
.TP
.B "bs0 bs1"
Select style of delay for
.SM BACKSPACE
characters.
.TP
.B "ff0 ff1"
Select style of delay for form
.SM FORMFEED
characters.
.TP
.B "vt0 vt1"
Select style of delay for vertical
.SM TAB
characters.
.SS Local Modes
.TP 12
.RB [ \- ] isig
Enable the checking of characters against the special characters
.SB INTR
and
.BR \s-1QUIT\s0 .
With a
.RB ` \- ',
disable this checking.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] icanon
Enable canonical input (\c
.BR \s-1ERASE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1KILL\s0 ,
.BR \s-1WERASE\s0 ,
and
.SB \s-1RPRNT
processing).
With a
.RB ` \- ',
disable canonical input.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] cbreak
Same as
.BR \-icanon .
.TP
.RB [ \- ] xcase
Perform canonical upper/lower-case presentation.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not perform canonical upper/lower-case presentation.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] echo
Echo back every character typed.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not echo back.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] echoe
Echo the
.SB ERASE
character as a sequence of
.SM BACKSPACE-SPACE-BACKSPACE\s0.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
echo the
.SB ERASE
character as itself.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] crterase
Same as
.BR echoe .
.TP
.RB [ \- ] echok
Echo
.SM NEWLINE
after echoing a
.SB KILL
character.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not echo
.SM NEWLINE
after echoing a
.SB KILL
character.
.TP
.BR lfkc
Same as
.BR echok ;
obsolete.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] echonl
Echo
.SM NEWLINE\s0,
even if
.B echo
is not set.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
do not echo
.SM NEWLINE
if
.B echo
is not set.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] noflsh
Disable flush after
.SB INTR
or
.BR \s-1QUIT\s0 .
With a
.RB ` \- ',
enable flush.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] tostop
Stop background jobs that attempt to write to the terminal.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
allow background jobs to write to the terminal.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] echoctl
Echo control characters as
.B x
(and delete as
.RB ` ? '.)
Print two
.SM BACKSPACE
characters following the
.SB EOF
character (default
.SM CTRL-D\s0).
With a
.RB ` \- ',
echo control characters as themselves.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] ctlecho
Same as
.BR echoctl .
.TP
.RB [ \- ] echoprt
Echo erased characters backwards within
.RB ` \e '
and
.RB ` / ';
used on printing
terminals.
With a
.RB ` \- ',
echo erased characters as indicated by
.BR echoe .
.TP
.RB [ \- ] prterase
Same as
.BR echoprt .
.TP
.RB [ \- ] echoke
Echo the
.SB KILL
character by erasing each character on the line as
indicated by
.B echoprt
and
.BR echoe .
With a
.RB ` \- ',
echo the
.SB KILL
character as indicated by
.B echoctl
and
.BR echok .
.TP
.RB [ \- ] crtkill
Same as
.BR echoke .
.TP
.SS Control Assignments
.TP 12
.I "control-character c"
Set
.I control-character
to
.IR c ,
where
.I control-character
is one of
.BR erase ,
.BR kill ,
.BR intr ,
.BR quit ,
.BR eof ,
.BR eol ,
.BR eol2 ,
.BR start ,
.BR stop ,
.BR susp ,
.BR rprnt ,
.BR flush ,
.BR werase ,
or
.BR lnext .
If
.I c
is preceded by a caret
.RB ( ^ ),
(escaped from the shell)
then the value used is the corresponding
.SM CTRL
character
(for instance,
.RB ` ^D '
is a
.SM CTRL-D\s0);
.RB ` ^? '
is interpreted as
.SM DEL
and
.RB ` ^\- '
is interpreted as undefined.
.TP
.BI min " i"
Set the
.SB MIN
value to
.IR i .
.TP
.BI time " i"
Set the
.SB TIME
value to
.IR i .
.TP
.BI rows " n"
Set the recorded number of rows on the terminal to
.IR i .
.TP
.BI columns " i"
Set the recorded number of columns on the terminal to
.IR i .
.TP
.BI cols " i"
An alias for
.BI columns " i"\fR.
.SS Combination Modes
.TP 12
.B cooked
Process the
.BR \s-1ERASE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1WERASE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1KILL\s0 ,
.BR \s-1INTR\s0 ,
.BR \s-1QUIT\s0 ,
.BR \s-1EOF\s0 ,
.BR \s-1EOL\s0 ,
.BR \s-1EOL2\s0 ,
.BR \s-1STOP\s0 ,
.BR \s-1START\s0 ,
.BR \s-1SUSP\s0 ,
.BR \s-1RPRNT\s0 ,
.BR \s-1FLUSH\s0 ,
and
.BR LNEXT
characters specially, and perform output post-processing.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BR evenp " or " parity
Enable
.BR parenb ,
disable
.BR parodd ,
and set
.BR cs7 .
.TP
.B oddp
Enable
.B parenb
and
.BR parodd ,
and set
.BR cs7 .
.TP
.BR \-evenp " or " \-parity
Disable
.BR parenb ,
and set
.BR cs8 .
.TP
.BR \-oddp
Disable
.B parenb
and
.BR parodd ,
and set
.BR cs8 .
.TP
.B pass8
Disable
.B parenb
and
.BR istrip ,
and set
.BR cs8 .
.TP
.B \-pass8
Enable
.B parenb
and
.BR istrip ,
and set
.BR cs7 .
.TP
.B litout
Disable
.BR parenb ,
.BR istrip ,
and
.BR opost ,
and set
.BR cs8 .
.TP
.B \-litout
Enable
.BR parenb ,
.BR istrip ,
and
.BR opost ,
and set
.BR cs7 .
.TP
.RB [ \- ] raw
Enable raw input and output.  With a
.RB ` \- ',
disable raw
.SM I/O\s0.
In raw mode, there is no special processing of the
.BR \s-1ERASE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1WERASE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1KILL\s0 ,
.BR \s-1INTR\s0 ,
.BR \s-1QUIT\s0 ,
.BR \s-1EOF\s0 ,
.BR \s-1EOL\s0 ,
.BR \s-1EOL2\s0 ,
.BR \s-1STOP\s0 ,
.BR \s-1START\s0 ,
.BR \s-1SUSP\s0 ,
.BR \s-1RPRNT\s0 ,
.BR \s-1FLUSH\s0 ,
nor
.SB LNEXT
characters, nor is there any other input pre-processing nor output
post-processing.
.BR brkint ,
.BR istrip ,
.BR imaxbel ,
and
.B parenb
are disabled, and
.B cs8
is set.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.RB [ \- ] nl
Unset
.BR icrnl ", " onlcr .
With a
.RB ` \- ',
set them.
In addition
.B \-nl
unsets
.BR inlcr ,
.BR igncr ,
.BR ocrnl ,
and
.BR onlret .
.TP
.RB [ \- ] lcase
Set
.BR xcase ,
.BR iuclc ,
and
.BR olcuc .
With a
.RB ` \- ',
unset them.
.TP
.RB [ \- ] \s-1LCASE\s+1
Same as
.BR lcase " (" \-lcase ).
.TP
.PD 0
.RB [ \- ] tabs
.TP
.B tab3
.PD
Preserve
.SM TAB
characters
when printing. With a
.RB ` \- ',
or with
.BR tab3 ,
expand
.SM TAB
characters to
.SM SPACE
characters.
.TP
.B ek
Reset the
.SB ERASE
and
.SB KILL
characters back to normal:
.SB DEL
and
.RB \s-1CTRL\s+1 -U ).
.TP
.B sane
Reset all modes to some reasonable values.
.TP
.B crt
Set options for a
.SM CRT
.RB ( echoe ,
.BR echoctl ,
and, if >= 1200 baud,
.BR echoke .)
.TP
.B dec
Set all modes suitable for Digital Equipment Corp. operating systems
users
.RB ( \s-1ERASE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1KILL\s0 ,
and
.SB INTR
characters to
.BR ^? ,
.BR ^U ,
and
.BR ^C ,
.BR decctlq ,
and
.BR crt .)
.TP
.B term
Set all modes suitable for the
terminal type
.BR term ,
where
.B term
is one of
.BR tty33 ", " tty37 ", " vt05 ", "
.BR tn300 ", " ti700 ", or " tek .
.BR -crtscts
Raise the
.SM RTS
(Request to Send) modem control line.  Suspends output until
the
.SM CTS
(Clear to Send) line is raised.
.br
.ne 8
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
The environment variables
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.B \s-1LC\s0_default
control the character classification
throughout
.BR stty .
On entry to
.BR stty ,
these environment variables are checked in the
following order:
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.BR \s-1LC\s0_default.
When a valid value is found,
remaining environment variables for character classification
are ignored.
For example, a new setting for
.B \s-1LANG\s0
does not override the current valid character
classification rules of
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 .
When none of the values is valid,
the shell character
classification defaults to the 
.SM POSIX.1 \*(lqC\*(rq
locale.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR termio (4),
.BR locale (5)
