.\" @(#)su.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH SU 1V "21 September 1989"
.SH NAME
su \- super-user, temporarily switch to a new user ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B su
[
.B \-
]
[
.B \-f
]
[
.I username
[
.IR arg .\|.\|.
]
]
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B su
[
.B \-
]
[
.I username
[
.IR arg .\|.\|.
]
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "su command"  ""  "\fLsu\fP \(em substitute user id"
.IX  "substitute user id \(em \fLsu\fP"
.IX  "super-user command"  ""  "super-user command  \(em \fLsu\fP"
.IX  "user ID"  "substitute \(em \fLsu\fP"
.LP
.B su
creates a new shell process that has the user
.SM ID
for the specified
.I username
as its real and effective user
.SM ID\s0.
.B su
asks for the password, just as if you were logging in as
.IR username ,
and, if the password is given, changes the real and effective user
.SM ID\s0s
and group
.SM ID\s0s
and group set to those of
.I username
and invokes
the shell specified in the password file for that
.IR username ,
without
changing the current directory.
The user environment is thus unchanged except for
.SB HOME
and
.BR \s-1SHELL\s0 ,
which are taken from the password file
for the user being substituted (see
.BR environ (5V)).
If
.I username
is not
.BR root ,
.SB USER
is changed to
.IR username .
The new user
.SM ID
stays in force until the shell exits.
.LP
The new shell will not be a login shell, so it will not read
.IR username 's
.B .login
or
.B .profile
files, but it will read any other configuration files for that user
(for instance, the
.B .cshrc
file for the C shell) just as if that user had invoked a new shell.
.LP
If no
.I username
is specified,
.B root
is assumed.  If the
.B wheel
group (group 0) does not contain a null user
list and has members, only they can
.B su
to
.BR root ,
even with the root password.
To remind the super-user of his responsibilities,
the shell substitutes
.RB ` # '
for
.RB ' $ '
or
.RB ' % '
in its 
usual prompt (except if you will be running 
.BR sh (1)
and 
.SB PS1
is set - 
in this case, 
the prompt will not be modified).
If
.IR arg s
are given,
they are passed to
.IR username 's
shell.
.LP
Any additional arguments given on the command line are
passed to the program invoked as the shell.
When using programs like
.BR sh (1)
and
.BR csh (1),
an
.I arg
of the form
.B \-c
.I string
executes
.I string
via the shell.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-
Perform a complete login.
Remove all variables from the environment except for
.BR \s-1TERM\s0 ,
set
.SB USER
to
.IR username ,
set
.SB HOME
and
.SB SHELL
as specified above, set
.SB PATH
to
.BR :/usr/ucb:/bin:/usr/bin ,
change directories to
.IR username 's
home directory, and tell the shell to read
.IR username 's
.B \&.login
or
.B \&.profile
file.
.TP
.B \-f
Perform a fast
.B su
by passing the
.B \-f
flag to the shell.  This flag is only meant for use with the C shell; it will
prevent the C shell from reading
.IR username 's
.B \&.cshrc
file.
If it is used with the Bourne shell,
it will disable filename generation.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B \&.cshrc
.TP
.B \&.login
.TP
.B \&.profile
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR csh (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR environ (5V)
.SH NOTES
.LP
.B su
does not accept 8-bit user
.SM ID\s0s.
See
.BR login (1)
for explanations about why 
8-bit
.B login
names are not acceptable.
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B su
fails when run from within a subdirectory of a directory that
.I username
either cannot search, or cannot read (that is,
.I username
does not have both read and execute permission).
.LP
.B su
fails to reset the user
.SM ID
to root when the current working
directory is in an
.SM NFS\s0-mounted
file system, and does not
have its search permission set for \*(lqother\*(rq users.
