.\" @(#)sum.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5
.TH SUM 1V "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
sum \- calculate a checksum for a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sum
.I filename
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/sum
[
.B \-r
]
.I filename
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "System V commands" "\fLsum\fR"
.IX  "sum command"  ""  "\fLsum\fP \(em sum and count blocks in file"
.IX  file  sum  ""  "\fLsum\fP \(em sum and count blocks in file"
.IX  "count blocks in file"  ""  "count blocks in file \(em \fLsum\fP"
.IX  "blocks, count, in file \(em \fLsum\fP"
.B sum
calculates and displays a 16-bit checksum for the named file,
and also displays the size of the file in kilobytes.
It is typically used to look for bad spots, or
to validate a file communicated over
some transmission line.
The checksum is calculated by an algorithm which may yield different results
on machines with 16-bit
.BR int s
and machines with 32-bit
.BR int s,
so it cannot
always be used to validate that a file
has been transferred between machines
with different-sized
.BR int s.
.SH SYSTEM V DESCRIPTION
.B sum
calculates and prints a 16-bit checksum for the named file,
and also prints the number of 512-byte blocks in the file.
It is typically used to look for bad spots, or
to validate a file communicated over
some transmission line.
This algorithm is independent of the size of
.BR int s
on the machine.
.SH SYSTEM V OPTIONS
The option
.B \-r
causes the (machine-dependent) algorithm used by the non-System V
.B sum
to be used in computing the checksum.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR wc (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B Read error
is indistinguishable from
.SM EOF
on most devices; check the block count.
