'\" t
.\" @(#)sunview.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SUNVIEW 1 "7 October 1990"
.\"		following line used to xref generic tool args
.if \n(zZ .ig zZ
.SH NAME
sunview \- the SunView window environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sunview
[
.B \-i
]
[
.B \-p
]
[
.BR \-B \||\| \-F \||\| \-P
]
[
.B \-S
]
[
.B \-8bit_color_only
]
[
.B \-overlay_only
]
[
.B \-toggle_enable
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.B \-b
.I red green blue
] 
[
.B \-d
.I display-device
] 
[
.B \-f
.I red green blue
] 
[
.B \-k
.I keyboard-device
] 
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.B \-m
.I mouse-device
] 
[
.BR \-n \||\| \-s
.I startup-filename
] 
[
.B \-background
.I raster-filename
] 
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.B \-pattern
.BR on \||
.BR off \||
.BR gray \||
.I iconedit-filename
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "SunView" "start up environment"
.IX  "sunview command"  ""  "\fLsunview\fP \(em Suntools window environment"
.IX  "window environment"  ""  "window environment \(em \fLsunview\fP"
.LP
.B sunview
starts up the SunView environment and (unless you have specified
otherwise) a default layout of a few useful \*(lqtools,\*(rq or window-based
applications.
.LP
See
.B Start-up Processing
below to learn how to specify your own
initial layout of tools.
Some of the behavior of 
.B sunview
is controlled by settings in your defaults database; see 
.B SunView Defaults
below, and 
.BR defaultsedit (1)
for more information.
.LP
To exit
.B sunview
use the 
.B Exit SunView
menu item. In an emergency, type
.SM CTRL-D 
then
.SM CTRL-Q
(there is no confirmation in this case).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-i
Invert the background and foreground colors used on the screen.
On a monochrome monitor, this option provides a video reversed image.
On a color monitor, colors that are not used as the background and foreground
are not affected.
.TP
.B \-p
Print to the standard output the name of the window device used for
the 
.B sunview
background.
.TP
.B \-B
Use the \*(lqbackground color\*(rq
.RB ( " \-b " )
for the background.
.TP
.B \-F
Use the \*(lqforeground color\*(rq
.RB ( " \-f " )
for the background.
.TP
.B \-P
Use a stipple pattern for the background.
This option is assumed unless
.B \-F
or
.B \-B
is specified.
.TP
.B \-S
Set
.B Click-to-type
mode, allowing you to select a window by clicking in it.
Having done so, input is directed to
that window regardless of the position of the pointer,
until you click to select some other window.
.TP
.B \-8bit_color_only
For multiple plane group frame buffers, only let windows be created
in the 8 bit color plane group.
This frees up the black and white
overlay plane to have a separate desktop running on it.
This option is usually used with the 
.B \-toggle_enable
option.
See
.BR "Multiple Desktops on the Same Screen" ,
below.
.TP
.B \-overlay_only
For multiple plane group frame buffers, only let windows be created
in the black and white overlay plane group. 
This frees up the 8 bit
color plane group to have a separate desktop running in it.
This option is usually used with the 
.B \-toggle_enable
option.
See
.BR "Multiple Desktops on the Same Screen" ,
below.
.TP
.B \-toggle_enable
For multiple plane group frame buffers, when sliding the pointer
between different desktops running within different plane groups
on the same screen, change the enable plane to allow viewing of
the destination desktop.
See
.BR "Multiple Desktops on the Same Screen" ,
below.
.br
.ne 4
.TP
.BI \-b " red green blue"
Specify values for the 
.IR red ,
.I green
and
.I blue
components of the background color.
If this option is not specified,
each component of the background color is 255 (white).
Sun 3/110 system users that use this option should use the
.B \-8bit_color_only
option as well.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-d " display-device"
Use 
.I display-device
as the output device, rather than
.B /dev/fb 
the default frame buffer device.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.BI \-f " red green blue"
Specify values for the 
.IR red ,
.I green
and
.I blue
components of the foreground color.
If this option is not specified,
each component of the foreground color is 0 (black).
Sun 3/110 system users that use this option should use the
.B \-8bit_color_only
option as well.
.TP
.BI \-k " keyboard-device"
Accept keyboard input from
.IR keyboard-device ,
rather than
.BR /dev/kbd ,
the default keyboard device.
.TP
.BI \-m " mouse-device"
Use 
.I mouse-device
as the system pointing device (locator), rather than
.BR /dev/mouse ,
the default mouse device.
.TP
.B \-n
Bypass startup processing by ignoring the 
.B /usr/lib/.sunview
and
.B ~/.sunview
(and 
.BR ~/.suntools )
files.
.TP
.BI \-s " startup-filename
Read startup commands from 
.I startup-filename
instead of 
.B /usr/lib/.sunview
or 
.BR ~/.sunview ).
.TP
.BI \-background " raster-filename"
Use the indicated raster file as the image in your background.
The raster file can be created with
.BR screendump (1).
Screen dumps produced on color monitors currently do not work as
input to this option.
Small images are centered on the screen.
.HP
.BI \-pattern
.BR on \||
.BR off \||
.BR gray \|| 
.I iconedit-filename
.br
Use the indicated \*(lqpattern\*(rq to cover the background.
.B on
means to use the default desktop gray pattern.
.B off
means to not use the default desktop gray pattern.
.B gray
means to use a 50% gray color on color monitors.
.I iconedit-filename
is the name of a file produced with
.BR iconedit (1)
which contains an image that is to be replicated over the background.
.SH USAGE
.SS Windows
.LP
The SunView environment always has one window open, 
referred to as the background, which covers the whole screen.
A solid color or pattern is its only content.
Each application is given its own window which lies on top of
some of the background (and possibly on top of other applications).
A window obscures any part of another window which lies below it.
.SS Input to Windows
.LP
Mouse input is always directed to the window that the pointer
is in at the time.
Keyboard input can follow mouse input or, it can remain within a
designated window using the
.B Click-to-Type
default setting.
If you are not using
.BR Click-to-Type ,
and the pointer is on the background, keyboard input is discarded.
Input actions (mouse
motions, button clicks, and keystrokes)
are synchronized, which
means that you can \*(lqtype-ahead\*(rq and \*(lqmouse-ahead,\*(rq
even across windows.
.SS Mouse Buttons
.TP 20
\s-1LEFT\s0 mouse button
Click to select or choose objects.
.TP
\s-1MIDDLE\s0 mouse button
In text, click once to shorten or lengthen your selection.
In graphic applications or on the desktop, press
and hold to move objects.
.TP
\s-1RIGHT\s0 mouse button
Press and hold down to invoke menus.
.PD
.SS Menus
.LP
.B sunview
provides pop-up menus.
There are two styles of pop-up menus:
an early style, called \*(lqstacking menus,\*(rq and a newer style,
called \*(lqwalking menus\*(rq (also known as \*(lqpull-right menus\*(rq).
In the current release, walking menus are the default; stacking
menus are still available as a defaults option.
.LP
Usually, a menu is invoked by pressing and holding the
.SM RIGHT
mouse button.
The menu remains on the screen as long as you hold the
.SM RIGHT
mouse button down.
To choose a menu item,
move the pointer onto it (it is then highlighted),
then release the
.SM RIGHT
mouse button.
.LP
Another available option is \*(lqstay-up menus.\*(rq
A stay-up menu is invoked by pressing and releasing the
.SM RIGHT
mouse button.
The menu appears on the screen after you release the
.SM RIGHT
mouse button.
To choose a menu item,
move the pointer onto it (it is then highlighted),
then press and release the
.SM RIGHT
mouse button a second time.
Stay-up menus are an option in your defaults database; see
.B SunView Defaults
below. 
.LP
With walking menus, any menu item can have an arrow pointing
.RB ( \(rh )
to the right.
Moving the pointer onto this arrow pops up a \*(lqsub-menu,\*(rq
with additional items.
Choosing the item with an arrow (the \*(lqpull-right item\*(rq)
invokes the first item on the sub-menu.
.SS The SunView Menu
.LP
You can use the default SunView menu to
start SunView applications and perform
some useful functions.
To invoke it, hold down the
.SM RIGHT
mouse button
when the pointer is anywhere in the background.
.LP
The default SunView menu is defined in the file
.BR /usr/lib/.rootmenu .
It consists of four sub-menus,
labeled
.BR Shells ,
.BR Editors ,
.BR Tools ,
and
.BR Services , 
along with items for
.B Remote Login, Redisplay All, Lock Screen
and 
.B Exit Sunview.
These sub-menus contain the following items:
.RS
.TP
.B Shells
.RS
.TP 15
.B Shell Tool
Bring up a
.BR shelltool (1),
an tty-based terminal emulator that supports a shell.
.TP
.B Command Tool
Bring up a 
.BR cmdtool (1),
a scrollable window-based terminal emulator that supports a shell.
.TP
.B Graphics Tool
Bring up a
.BR gfxtool (1),
for running graphics programs.
.TP
.B Console
Bring up a Console window, a
.BR cmdtool
with the
.B \-C
flag, to act as the system console.
Since many system messages
can be directed to the console, there should always be a console
window on the screen.
.RE
.TP
.B Remote Login
This will create a terminal emulator that prompts
for a machine name and then starts a shell on that
machine.
.TP
.B Editors
.RS
.TP 15
.B Text Editor
Bring up a
.BR textedit (1),
for reading and editing text files.
.TP
.B Defaults Editor
Bring up a
.BR defaultsedit (1),
for browsing or changing your defaults settings.
.TP
.B Icon Editor
Bring up a new
.BR iconedit (1).
.TP
.B Font Editor
Bring up a
.BR fontedit (1).
.RE
.TP
.B Tools
.RS
.TP 15
.B Mail Tool
Bring up a
.BR mailtool (1),
for reading and sending mail.
.TP
.B Dbx (Debug) Tool
Bring up a
.BR dbxtool (1),
a window-based source debugger.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B Performance Meter
Bring up a
.BR perfmeter (1)
to monitor system performance.
.TP
.B Clock
Bring up a new
.BR clock (1).
.RE
.TP
.B Services
.RS
.TP 15
.B Eject
There are two items on this submenu,
"cdrom" and "floppy".
Use this to eject cdrom or floppy media from the drive.
.TP
.B Printing
There are two items on this submenu, 
.B "Check Printer Queue"
and
.BR "Print Selected Text" .
.B "Check Printer Queue"
displays the printer queue in your console;
.B  "Print Selected Text"
sends selected text to the standard printer.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B Save Layout
Writes out a
.B ~/.sunview
file that
.B sunview
can then use when starting up again. 
An existing
.B ~/.sunview
file is saved as
.BR ~/.sunview\- .
.RE
.TP
.B Redisplay All
Redraw the entire screen.
Use this to repair damage done by processes that wrote to the screen
without consulting the SunView system. 
.TP
.B Lock Screen
Completely covers the screen with a graphics display, and \*(lqlocks\*(rq
the workstation until you type your password.
When you \*(lqunlock\*(rq the workstation, the screen is restored as it was
when you locked it.
See
.BR lockscreen (1)
for details.
.TP
.B Exit SunView
Exit from
.BR sunview ,
including all windows, and kill processes associated with them.
You return to the shell from which you started
.BR sunview .
.RE
.RE
.LP
You can specify your own SunView menu; see 
.B SunView Defaults
below for details.
.SS The Frame Menu
.LP
A small set of universal functions are available through the Frame menu.
There are also accelerators for some of these functions,
described under
.BR "Frame Menu Accelerators" ,
below.
.LP
You can invoke the Frame menu when the cursor is over a part of the
application that does not provide an application-specific menu,
such as the frame header (broad stripe holding the application's name),
the border stripes of the window, and the icon.
.TP 15
.B Close
.PD 0
.TP
.B Open
.PD
Toggle the application between closed (iconic) and open state.
Icons are placed on the screen according to the icon policy in your
defaults database; see
.B SunView Defaults
below.
When a window is closed, its underlying processes continue to run.
.TP
.B Move
Moves the application window to another spot on the screen.
.B Move
has a sub-menu with two items:
.B Unconstrained
and
.BR Constrained .
.RS
.TP 15
.B Unconstrained
Move the window both horizontally and vertically.
.TP
.B Constrained
Moves are either vertical or horizontal, but not both.
.IP
Choosing
.B Move
invokes an
.B Unconstrained
move.
.RE
.TP
.B Resize
Shrink or stretch the size of a window on the screen.
.B Resize
has a sub-menu containing:
.RS
.TP 15
.B Unconstrained
Resize the window both horizontally and vertically.
.TP
.B Constrained
Resize vertically or horizontally, but not both.
.IP
Choosing
.B Resize
invokes an
.B Unconstrained
resize.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B UnZoom
.TP
.B Zoom
.B Zoom
expands a window vertically to the full height of the screen.
.B UnZoom
undoes this.
.TP
.B FullScreen
Make a window the full height and width of the screen.
.RE
.TP
.B Front
Bring the window to \*(lqthe top of the pile.\*(rq
The whole window becomes visible, and hides any window it happens to
overlap on the screen.
.TP
.B Back
Put the window on the \*(lqbottom of the pile\*(rq.
The window is hidden by any window which overlaps it.
.TP
.B Props
Display the property sheet.
(Only active for applications that provide a property sheet.)
.TP
.B Redisplay
Redraw the contents of the window.
.TP
.B Quit
Notify the application to terminate gracefully.
Requires confirmation.
.br
.ne 7
.SS Frame Menu Accelerators
.LP
Accelerators are provided for some Frame menu functions.
You can invoke these functions by pushing a single button
in the window's frame header or outer border.
See the
.B SunView Beginner's Guide
for more details.
.TP 18
.B Open
Click the
.SM LEFT
mouse button when the pointer is over the icon.
.TP
.B Move
Press and hold the
.SM MIDDLE
mouse button
while the pointer is in the frame header or outer border.
A bounding box that tracks the mouse is displayed while
you hold the button down.
When you release the button, the window
is redisplayed within the bounding box.
If the pointer is near a corner, the move is
.BR Unconstrained .
If it is in the center third of an edge, the move is
.BR Constrained .
.TP
.B Resize
Hold the
.SM CTRL
key and press and hold the
.SM MIDDLE
mouse button
while the pointer is in the frame header or outer border.
A bounding box is displayed, and one side or corner tracks the mouse.
If the pointer is near a corner when you press the mouse button,
the resize is 
.BR Unconstrained ;
if in the middle third of an edge, the resize is
.BR Constrained .
.TP
.B Zoom
.PD 0
.TP
.B UnZoom
.PD
Hold the
.SM CTRL
key and click the
.SM LEFT
mouse button
while the pointer is in the frame header or outer border.
.TP
.B Front
Click the
.SM LEFT
mouse button
while the pointer is on the frame header or outer border.
.TP
.B Back
Hold the 
.SM SHIFT
key and click the
.SM LEFT
mouse button
while the pointer is on the frame header or outer border.
.LP
In addition, you can use two function keys as even faster accelerators.
To expose a window that is partially hidden, press the
.B Front
function key (normally L5)
while the pointer is anywhere in that window.
Or, if the window is completely exposed, use the
.B Front
key to hide it.
Similarly, to close an open window, press the
.B Open
key (normally L7) while the pointer is anywhere
in that window.
If the window is iconic, use the
.B Open
key to open it.
.LP
In applications with multiple windows, you can often adjust the border
between two windows up or down, without changing the overall size
of the application:
hold the
.SM CTRL
key, press the
.SM MIDDLE
mouse button over the boundary
between the two windows, and adjust
the size of the (bounded) subwindow as with 
.BR Resize .
.SS "Startup Processing:  The .sunview File"
.LP
Unless you override it,
.B sunview
starts up with a predefined layout of windows.
The default layout is specified in the file
.BR /usr/lib/.sunview .
If there is a file called
.B \&.sunview
in your home directory, it is used instead.
For compatibility with earlier releases, if there is no
.B \&.sunview
file in your home directory, but a 
.B \&.suntools
file instead, the latter file is used.
.LP
.SS SunView Defaults
.LP
SunView allows you to customize the behavior of applications and packages
by setting options in a defaults database (one for each user).
Use
.BR defaultsedit (1)
to browse and edit your defaults database.
Select the \*(lqSunView\*(rq category to see the following items (and
some others):
.TP 18
.B Walking_menus
If enabled, the SunView menu, the Frame menu, and many applications
will use walking menus.
Applications that have not been converted will still use stacking menus.
If disabled, applications will use stacking menus.
The default value is \*(lqEnabled.\*(rq
.TP
.B Click_to_Type
If enabled, keyboard input will stay in a window until you click the
.SM LEFT
or
.SM MIDDLE
mouse button in another window.
If disabled, keyboard input will follow the mouse.
The default value is \*(lqDisabled.\*(rq
.br
.ne 7
.TP
.B Font
You can change the SunView default font by giving the full pathname
of the font you want to use.
Some alternate fonts are in the directory
.BR /usr/lib/fonts/fixedwidthfonts .
The default font from the Sun\s-1OS\s0 2.0 release was
.BR /usr/lib/fonts/fixedwidthfonts/screen.r.13 .
The default value is null, which has the same effect as specifying
.BR /usr/lib/fonts/fixedwidthfonts/screen.r.11 .
.TP
.B Rootmenu_filename
You can change the SunView menu by giving the full pathname
of a file that specifies your own menu.
See
.B The SunView Menu File
below for details.
The default value is null, which gives you the menu found in
.BR /usr/lib/.rootmenu .
.TP
.B Icon_gravity
Determine which edge of the screen (\*(lqNorth\*(rq, \*(lqSouth\*(rq,
\*(lqEast\*(rq, or \*(lqWest\*(rq) icons will place themselves against.
The default value is \*(lqNorth.\*(rq
.TP
.B Audible_bell
If enabled, the \*(lqbell\*(rq command will produce a beep.
The default value is \*(lqEnabled.\*(rq
.TP
.B "Visible_bell
If enabled, the \*(lqbell\*(rq command will cause the screen to flash.
The default value is \*(lqEnabled.\*(rq
.TP
.B Root_Pattern
Used to specify the \*(lqpattern\*(rq that covers the background.
\*(lqon\*(rq means to use the default desktop gray pattern.
\*(lqoff\*(rq means to not use the default desktop gray pattern.
\*(lqgray\*(rq means to use a 50% gray color on color monitors.
Anything else is the name of a file produced with
.BR iconedit (1)
which contains an image that is replicated all over the background.
The default value is \*(lqon.\*(rq
.LP 
After you have set the options you want in the \*(lqSunView\*(rq category,
click on the
.B Save
button in
.BR defaultsedit ;
then exit
.B sunview
and restart it.
.LP
Select the \*(lqMenu\*(rq category to see the following items (and some others):
.TP 18
.B Stay_up
If enabled, menus are invoked by pressing and releasing the
.SM RIGHT
mouse button; the menu appears after you release the
.SM RIGHT
mouse button. To choose a menu item, point at it,
then press and release the
.SM RIGHT
mouse button a second time.
The default value is \*(lqFalse\*(rq.
.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B Items_in_column_major
If enabled, menus that have more than one column are presented in
\*(lqcolumn major\*(rq order (the way
.BR ls (1V)
presents file names).
This may make a large menu easier to read.
The default value is \*(lqFalse.\*(rq
.LP
After you have set the options you want in the \*(lqMenu\*(rq category,
click on the
.B Save
button in
.BR defaultsedit .
Any applications you start after saving your changes will be affected by
your new choices.
For all defaults categories except for \*(lqSunView\*(rq, you do
.I not
need to exit
.B sunview
and restart it.
.SS "The SunView Menu File"
.LP
The file called
.B /usr/lib/.rootmenu
contains the specification of the default SunView menu.
You can change the SunView menu by creating your own file and
giving its name in the
.B Rootmenu_filename
item in the SunView Defaults.
.LP
Lines in the file have the following format:
The left side is a menu item to be displayed, and
the right side is a command to be executed when that menu item
is chosen.
You can also include comment lines (beginning with a `\fB#\fP\^')
and blank lines.
.LP
The menu item can be a string, or the
full pathname of an icon file delimited by angle brackets
(unless
.B Walking_menus
is disabled in the SunView defaults).
Strings with embedded blanks must be delimited by double quotes.
.LP
There are four reserved-word commands that can appear on the right side.
.RS
.TP 15
.SB EXIT
Exit 
.BR sunview
(requires confirmation).
.TP
.SB REFRESH
Redraw the entire screen.
.TP
.SB MENU
This menu item is a pull-right item with a submenu.
If a full pathname follows the
.SB MENU
command, the submenu contents are taken from that file.
Otherwise, all the lines between a
.SB MENU
command and a matching
.SB END
command are added to the submenu.
.TP
.SB END
Mark the end of a nested submenu.
The left side of this line should match the left side of a line
with a
.SB MENU
command.
.RE
.LP
If the command is not one of these four reserved-word commands, it is
treated as a command line and executed.
No shell interpretation is done, although you can run a shell as a
command.
.LP
Here is a menu file that demonstrates some of these features:
.RS
.TP 24n
.B Quit
.SB EXIT
.\" \f[BP] must be used in the following examples!
.TP
\fB"Mail reader"\fP
.B mailtool
.TP
\fB"My\ tools"\fP
.B \s-1MENU\s0  /home/me/mytools.menu
.TP
\fB"Click to type"\fP
.B swin \-c
.TP
\fB"Follow mouse"\fP
.B swin \-m
.TP
\fB"Print selection"\fP
.B sh \-c get_selection | lpr
.TP
\fB"Nested menu"\fP
.SB MENU
.RS 5
.TP 19
\fB"Command Tool"\fP
.B cmdtool
.TP
\fB"Shell Tool"\fP
.B shelltool
.RE
.TP 24
\fB"Nested menu"\fP
.SB END
.TP
\fB"Icon menu"\fP
.SB MENU
.RS 5
.LP 
.B <images/textedit.icon>   	textedit
.LP
.B <images/dbxtool.icon>   	dbxtool
.RE
.TP 24
\fB"Icon menu"\fP
.SB END
.RE
.SS "Multiple Screens"
.LP
The 
.B sunview
program runs on either a monochrome or color screen.
Each screen on a machine with multiple screens may have a separate
.B sunview
running.
The keyboard and mouse input devices can be shared between
screens. 
Using 
.BR adjacentscreens (1)
you can set up the pointer to slide from one screen to another
when you move it off the edge of a screen.
.LP
To set up an instance of 
.B sunview
on two screens:
.IP \(bu 4
Invoke
.B sunview
on the first display as you normally would.
This starts an instance of
.B sunview
on the default frame buffer 
.RB ( /dev/fb ).
.IP \(bu
In a 
.BR shelltool ,
run: 
.RS
.IP
.B "sunview \-d"
.I device
.B &
.RE
.IP
This starts another device. 
A typical choice might be
.BR /dev/cgone .
.IP \(bu
In that same 
.BR shelltool ,
run:
.RS
.IP
.B "adjacentscreens /dev/fb \-r"
.I device
.RE
.IP
This sets up the cursor to switch between screens as it crosses
the right or left edge of the respective screens.
.SS Multiple Desktops on the Same Screen
.LP
Machines that support multiple plane groups, such as the Sun-3/110
system, can support independent
.B sunview
processes on each plane group. 
They can share keyboard and
mouse input in a manner similar to that for multiple screens.
To set up two plane groups:
.IP \(bu 4
Start
.B sunview
in the color plane group by running:
.RS
.IP
.B "sunview \-8bit_color_only \-toggle_enable"
.RE
.IP
This starts 
.B sunview
on the default frame buffer named
.BR /dev/fb ,
but limits access to the color plane group.
.IP \(bu
In a 
.BR shelltool ,
run:
.RS
.IP
.B "sunview \-d /dev/bwtwo0 \-toggle_enable \-n &"
.RE
.IP
This starts
.B sunview
in the overlay plane accessed by
.BR /dev/bwtwo0 .
.IP \(bu
Run:
.RS
.IP
.B "adjacentscreens \-c /dev/fb \-l /dev/bwtwo0"
.RE
.IP
This sets up the pointer to switch between desktops as it
crosses the right or left edge of the respective desktops.
.LP
Pre-3.2 applications cannot be run on the 
.B \-8bit_color_only
desktop, because they do not write to the overlay plane.
.LP
.BR switcher (1),
another application for switching between desktops, uses some amusing
video wipe animation.
It can also be used to toggle
the enable plane.
See
.BR switcher (1)
for details.
.\"		following line used to xref generic tool args
.zZ
.br
.ne 9
.SS Generic Tool Arguments
.LP
Most window-based tools take the following arguments
in their command lines:
.\" ==== troff version ===
.if n .ig IG
.TS
cb cb cb cb
lb lb l l .
\s-1FLAG\s0	(\s-1LONG FLAG\s0)	\s-1ARGUMENTS	NOTES\s0
\-Ww 	(\-width)   	columns
\-Wh 	(\-height)  	lines
\-Ws 	(\-size)    	\fIx y\fP	\fIx\fP and \fIy\fP are in pixels
\-Wp 	(\-position) 	\fIx y\fP	\fIx\fP and \fIy\fP are in pixels
\-WP 	(\-icon_position)	\fIx y\fP	\fIx\fP and \fIy\fP are in pixels
\-Wl 	(\-label)   	\fIstring\fP
\-Wi 	(\-iconic)  		makes the application start iconic (closed)
\-Wt 	(\-font)	\fIfilename\fP
\-Wn 	(\-no_name_stripe)
\-Wf 	(\-foreground_color)	\fBred green blue\fP	0-255 (no color-full color)
\-Wb 	(\-background_color) 	\fBred green blue\fP	0-255 (no color-full color)
\-Wg 	(\-set_default_color)		(apply color to subwindows too)
\-\s-1WI\s0 	(\-icon_image)	\fIfilename\fP	(for applications with non-default icons)
\-\s-1WL\s0 	(\-icon_label)	\fIstring\fP	(for applications with non-default icons)
\-\s-1WT\s0 	(\-icon_font)	\fIfilename\fP	(for applications with non-default icons)
\-\s-1WH\s0	(\-help)		print this table
.TE
.IG
.\" === end troff version ===
.\" ====  nroff version ===
.if t .ig IG
.TS
cb cb cb cb
lb lb l l .
\s-1FLAG\s0	(\s-1LONG FLAG\s0)	\s-1ARGUMENTS	NOTES\s0
\-Ww 	(\-width)   	columns
\-Wh 	(\-height)  	lines
\-Ws 	(\-size)    	\fIx y\fP	\fIx\fP and \fIy\fP are
			in pixels
\-Wp 	(\-position) 	\fIx y\fP	\fIx\fP and \fIy\fP are
			in pixels
\-WP 	(\-icon_position)	\fIx y\fP	\fIx\fP and \fIy\fP
			are in pixels
\-Wl 	(\-label)   	\fIstring\fP
\-Wi 	(\-iconic)  		makes the
			application start
			iconic (closed)
\-Wt 	(\-font)	\fIfilename\fP
\-Wn 	(\-no_name_stripe)
\-Wf 	(\-foreground_color)	\fBred green blue\fP	0-255 (no
			color-full color)
\-Wb 	(\-background_color) 	\fBred green blue\fP	0-255 (no
			color-full color)
\-Wg 	(\-set_default_color)		(apply color to
			subwindows too)
\-\s-1WI\s0 	(\-icon_image)	\fIfilename\fP	(for applications
			with non-default
			icons)
\-\s-1WL\s0 	(\-icon_label)	\fIstring\fP	(for applications
			with non-default
			icons)
\-\s-1WT\s0 	(\-icon_font)	\fIfilename\fP	(for applications
			with non-default
			icons)
\-\s-1WH\s0	(\-help)		print this table
.TE
.IG
.\" === end nroff version ===
.LP
Each flag option may be specified in either its short form or its long
form; the two are completely synonymous.
.\"             following line used to xref generic tool args
.if \n(zZ .ig zZ
.SS SunView Applications
Some of the applications that run in the SunView environment:
.IP
.BR clock (1),
.BR cmdtool (1),
.BR dbxtool (1),
.BR defaultsedit (1),
.BR fontedit (1),
.BR gfxtool (1),
.BR iconedit (1),
.br
.BR lockscreen (1),
.BR mailtool (1),
.BR overview (1),
.BR perfmeter (1),
.BR shelltool (1),
.br
.BR tektool (1),
.BR textedit (1),
.BR traffic (1C)
.LP
Some of the utility programs that run in or with the SunView environment:
.IP
.BR adjacentscreens (1),
.BR clear_functions (1),
.BR get_selection (1),
.BR stty_from_defaults (1),
.br
.BR swin (1),
.BR switcher (1),
.BR toolplaces (1)
.\" .LP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 20
.SB DEFAULTS_FILE
The value of this environment variable indicates the file from which
SunView defaults are read.
When it is undefined, defaults are read
from the
.B .defaults
file in your home directory.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.B ~/.sunview
.TP
.B /usr/lib/.sunview
.TP
.B /usr/lib/.rootmenu
.TP
.B /usr/lib/fonts/fixedwidthfonts/*
.TP
.B /dev/win\fIx\fP
.TP
.B /dev/ptyp\fIx\fP
.TP
.B /dev/ttyp\fIx\fP
.TP
.B /dev/fb 
.TP
.B /dev/kbd 
.TP
.B /dev/mouse
.TP
.B /etc/utmp
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR adjacentscreens (1),
.BR clear_functions (1),
.BR clock (1),
.BR cmdtool (1),
.BR dbxtool (1),
.BR defaultsedit (1),
.BR fontedit (1),
.BR get_selection (1),
.BR gfxtool (1),
.BR iconedit (1),
.BR lockscreen (1),
.BR mailtool (1),
.BR overview (1),
.BR perfmeter (1),
.BR screendump (1),
.BR shelltool (1),
.BR stty_from_defaults (1),
.BR swin (1),
.BR switcher (1),
.BR tektool (1),
.BR textedit (1),
.BR toolplaces (1),
.BR traffic (1C),
.BR fbtab (5),
.BR svdtab (5)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Console messages ignore window boundaries unless redirected to a
console window. 
This can disrupt the 
.B sunview
desktop display.
The display can be restored using the
.B Redisplay All
item on the SunView menu. 
To prevent this, use the 
.B Console
item to start a console window.
.LP
With an optical mouse, sometimes the arrow-shaped cursor does not move
at start-up; moving the mouse in large circles on its pad
normally brings it to life.
.LP
.B sunview
requires that the
.B /etc/utmp
file be given read and write permission for all users.
.LP
On a color display, colors may \*(lqgo strange\*(rq when the cursor is in
certain windows that request a large number of colors.
.LP
When running multiple desktops, only one console window can be used.
.LP
In
.B Click-to-type
mode, it is impossible to exit from 
.B sunview
by typing
.SM CTRL-D
\s-1CTRL-Q\s0.
.\"		following line used to xref generic tool args
.zZ
