.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI; new for 4.1
.TH SV_ACQUIRE 1 "25 January 1990"
.SH NAME
sv_acquire, sv_release \- change owner, group, permissions of window devices  
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B sv_acquire
[
.I startwin
[
.I nwins
[
.I nbackground
]]]
.LP
.B sv_release
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "sv_acquire" "" "\fLsv_acquire\fP \(em change owner, group, mode of window devices"
.IX "sv_release" "" "\fLsv_release\fP \(em return owner, group, mode of window devices to default"
.LP
.B sv_acquire 
changes the owner, group and permissions of window system
devices to the user
.SM ID\s0,
group
.SM ID\s0,
and the permissions specified in 
.B /etc/svdtab 
(see 
.BR svdtab (5)),
if there is an entry in that file.
If no entry exists in
.BR /etc/svdtab ,
no changes will be made.
.LP
.B sv_release
returns the owner, and group to
.B root
and
.BR wheel .
The permissions are set as specified in
.BR /etc/svdtab .
.LP
.I startwin
indicates the first 
.B win
to change, 
.I nwins
indicates the number of windows to change, 
.I nbackgound
indicates the number of 
.B win 
devices to change in the backgound.
.LP
This is a setuid root program spawned by 
the window system
(for example, 
.BR sunview (1)).
.B sv_acquire 
exits if 
the user does not own console devices listed in 
.B /etc/fbtab 
(see 
.BR fbtab (5)).
.B sv_acquire 
exits with 0 on success and \-1 on failure.  
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
In the following example,
.B sv_acquire 
sets the user
.SM ID
and the group
.SM ID
of
.B /dev/win0 
through
.B /dev/win15 
in the foreground and spawns a background process to set 
.B /dev/win16
through 
.B /dev/win256 
and exit with error status. 
.RS
.B 	sv_acquire 0 256 240
.RE
.LP
The purpose of spawning a background process is to allow the caller 
to avoid waiting for all
.B win 
devices to be changed.
Note: a diskless 3/50 sets approximately 16 wins 
per second.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sunview (1),
.BR fbtab (5),
.BR svdtab (5)
