.\" @(#)switcher.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SWITCHER 1 "18 February 1988"
.SH NAME
switcher \- switch attention between multiple SunView desktops on the same physical screen
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B switcher
[
.B \-d
.I frame-buffer
] [
.BR \-s
.BR n \||\|\c
.BR l \||\|\c
.BR r \||\|\c
.BR i \||\|\c
.BR o \||\|\c
.B f
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-m
.I x y
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-e
.BR 0 \||\|\c
.B 1
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.TX SVBG 
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  switcher  ""  "\fLswitcher\fP"
.IX  "window management"  "switcher utility"  ""  "\fLswitcher\fP utility"
.LP
.B switcher
is used as an alternative to
.BR adjacentscreens (1)
for getting between desktops on the Sun-3/110.
Clicking the switcher icon
gets you to another desktop using some amusing video-wipe animation.
When using walking menus, a menu is available to invoke the switch as well.
.B switcher
can also be used to simply set the enable
plane
to 0 or 1 should it get out of wack.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d " frame-buffer"
The
.I frame buffer
is a frame buffer device name, such as
.BR /dev/fb ,
.B /dev/cgfour
or
.BR /dev/bwtwo0 ,
on which the desktop that you
want to get to resides.  This name is the same one supplied to
.BR sunview .
The
.B \-d
flag is optional; if not specified,
the default device is
.B /dev/fb
.
.HP
.B \-s
.BR n \||\|\c
.BR l \||\|\c
.BR r \||\|\c
.BR i \||\|\c
.BR o \||\|\c
.B f
.br
The
.B \-s
flag specifies the type of animation used when switching:
.B n
(now),
.B l
(left wipe),
.B r
(right  wipe),
.B i
(tunnel in),
.B o
(tunnel out),
or
.B f
(fade).
The
.B \-s
flag is optional because if not specified,
the default animation is to switch immediately.
.B n
(now) mode.
.TP
.BI \-m "x y"
The
.B \-m
indicates what the mouse position should be on the
destination desktop after the switch.
An
.RI ( x
.IR y )
value-pair of (\-1 \-1) says to use the position
of the mouse on the desktop at the time of the switch as the mouse
position on the destination desktop.
The
.B \-m
flag is optional; if not specified,
the default is (\-1 \-1).
.TP
.B \-n
The
.B \-n
flag
means no switcher icon is wanted so do the switch right now and exit
.B switcher
after the switch.  This is handy if you want to
switch
from a root menu command.
.TP
.BR "\-e 0" \||\| 1
The
.B \-e
flag causes the overlay enable plane of the device specified
with the
.B -d
flag to be set to either 0 (show color) or
1 (show black and white).
.B switcher
run with this option has
nothing to do with SunView, only the enable plane is set.
.LP
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
A common multiple desktop configuration
for the Sun-3/110 is one monochrome
and one color desktop.   You could set up an instance of
.BR sunview (1)
on each plane group in the following ways:
.TP
1.
Invoke
.B sunview
in the color plane group by running:
.RS
.IP
.B "example% sunview \-8bit_color_only \-toggle_enable"
.RE
.IP
This starts
.B sunview
on the default frame buffer named
.B /dev/fb
but limits access to the color plane
group.
.TP
2.
In a
.BR shelltool (1),
run:
.RS
.IP
.B "example% sunview \-d /dev/bwtwo0 \-toggle_enable &"
.RE
.IP
This starts
.B sunview
in the overlay plane that is accessed by
.BR /dev/bwtwo0 .
.br
.ne 5
.TP
3.
In a
.B shelltool
on the original desktop run:
.RS
.IP
.B "example% switcher \-d /dev/bwtwo0 \-s i &"
.RE
.IP
Clicking on the switcher icon when it is visible moves you to the
.B /dev/bwtwo0
desktop.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
4.
In a
.B shelltool
on the
.B /dev/bwtwo0
desktop run:
.RS
.IP
.B example% switcher \-s o &
.RE
.IP
Clicking on the switcher icon when it is
visible moves you back to the
.B /dev/fb
desktop.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/bin/switcher
.TP
.B /dev/bwtwo0
.TP
.B /dev/fb
.TP
.B /dev/cgfour
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR adjacentscreens (1),
.BR shelltool (1),
.BR sunview (1)
