.\" @(#)sysex.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH SYSEX 1 "11 February 1988" 
.SH NAME 
sysex \- start the system exerciser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sysex
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "sysex command" "" "\fLsysex\fR command"  
.LP
.B sysex
is the system exerciser for Sun386i systems.
.LP
This program is designed to run under the SunView
environment, 
but a dumb terminal interface is provided.
The program tests subsystems of a Sun386i system,
printing information to the console and log files.
Most commands are accessible by way of buttons,
toggle switches, or menus. 
A startup file
.BR ~/.sysexrc ,
can be created by experienced users to set runtime parameters. 
.SH USAGE
.SS Subwindows
.TP 15
Control Panel 
Tells which version of the exerciser is running.
User controls 
.B sysex 
executions through the toggles, buttons, and sliders in this panel.
.TP
Perfmon window
Graphically displays system statics.
The standard SunView
.BR perfmeter (1).
.TP
Console window 
Displays the system messages and 
.B sysex 
error messages.
.TP
Status Window
Displays pass counts and error counts for all tests that are currently selected.
Also displays system pass count, and total system errors.
Elapsed time 
signifies time since start button is pressed.
.SS Load Sliders
.LP
These slide bars allow the user to modulate the load on the system.
.TP
\s-1I/O-CPU\s0 Load
Moving this slider changes the balance between I/O-intensive and
compute-intensive tests that are running.
.TP
.SM "SYSTEM LOAD"
Moving this slider increases and decreases the system activity
generated by 
.BR sysex .
.SS Test Toggles
.LP
Each test selection on the control panel is selectable
by moving the cursor over to the toggle and
pressing the left mouse button.
.LP
The tests are displayed by device groups in the control panel.
A test is enabled when a check mark is seen in the box.
Clicking left on the group label
acts as a group enable/disable for all
tests in that device group.
Currently
there are tests for physical memory and virtual memory, fixed disk, diskette,
Ethernet, 
.\"floating point, 
and color frame buffer.
.SS Command Buttons
.LP
Command buttons exist for the following commands:
.LP
.TP 15
.B Quit Sysex
Stop all current tests and exit the exerciser.
All logs will be saved.
.TP
.B Log Files
Display menu for choosing a log to view, reset, or print.
.TP
.B Options
Display window through which 
.B ~/.sysexrc
parameters can be modified.
.TP
.B Print Screen
Take screendump of the current screen.
.TP
.B Start Tests
Start all test from pass0 that have been selected.
Resets pass count.
Toggles to Stop Tests.
Begin elapsed time count.
.TP
.B Stop Tests
Stop all tests that are running.
Toggles to Start Tests. 
.TP
.B Pause
Pause tests by issuing 
.BR \s-1SIGSTP\s0 .
.TP
.B Continue
Continue testing from the stopped state without resetting pass count. 
Toggles to Pause,leaves pass counts intact.
Continue 
elapsed time count if Continued from a Pause.
.SS Logs
.LP
When the user selects the
.SM DISPLAY LOGS
button and chooses
from the log menu, a scrollable pop-up window
displays the log, which is one of
.BR /var/sysex/sysex.info ,
.BR /var/sysex/sysex.error ,
or 
.BR /etc/adm/messages .
Logs contain messages classified as
.SM INFO\s0,
.SM WARNING\s0,
.SM ERROR\s0,
or
.SM FATAL\s0.
The
.SM INFO
file contains all messages; the
.SM ERROR
file contains only error and fatal messages.
.SS Variables
.LP
.B sysex
has several variables than can be set in the
.B ~/.sysexrc
file.
Some of the variables pertain to only one test 
and others are global to all tests.
Clicking
.B Done
saves changes to the
.B ~/.sysexrc
file.
Clicking
.B Cancel
leaves options unchanged.
.LP
.TP
.B verbose
Display messages about what is currently taking place.
.TP
.B verify 
Run through a cursory pass of tests to see all subsystems present.
.TP
.B run_on_err
Halt subsystem testing when an error occurs.
.TP
.B sysex_halt_on_err
Stop 
.B sysex
if an error occurs in any subsystem.
.TP
.B core
Create core dump in 
.IR /var/sysex .
.TP
.B single_pass
Run one pass of each selected device test.
.LP
For the expert user, more commands are available by clicking the
manufacturing cycle to Enabled.
This displays the following
options:
.LP
.TP 10
.B fdc_wait
Variable wait time between executions of the diskette test.
.TP
.B vmem_wait
Variable delay between successive executions of the virtual memory test.
.TP
.B debug
Display all messages to aid analysis of problem systems.
.TP
.B check_eeprom
Read 
.SB NVRAM 
configuration information and display values.
.TP
.B intervention
Turn on or off the confirmer for all destructive tests, or for tests requiring media.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/sysex/sysex
.TP
.B /var/sysex/core
.TP
.B /var/sysex/sysex.info
.TP
.B /var/sysex/sysex.error
.PD
