.\" @(#)tabs.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH TABS 1V "7 January 1988"
.SH NAME
tabs \- set tab stops on a terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/tabs
[
.I tabspec
] [
.BI \-T type
] [
.BI +m n
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "tabs command" "" "\fLtabs\fR command"  
.LP
.B tabs
can be used to specify
.SM TAB 
stops on terminals that support
remotely-settable hardware
.SM TAB
characters.
.SM TAB
stops are set according to the
.I tabspec
option, as described below, and previous settings are erased.
.LP
Four types of tab specification are accepted for
.IR tabspec .
They are:
.LP
.TP 8
.BI \- code
Set the
.SM TAB
stops according to the canned
.SM TAB
setting specified by
.IR code ,
as given by
.BR fspec (5).
.TP 8
.BI \- n
Set the
.SM TAB
stops at intervals of
.I n
columns, that is, at
.RI 1+ n ,
.RI 1+2\(** n ,
and so on, as per the
.BI \- n
specification as given by
.BR fspec (5).
.TP
.IR n1 , n2 ,\|.\|.\|.
Set the
.SM TAB
stops at positions
.IR n1 ,
.IR n2 ,
and so on, as per the
.IR n1 , n2 ,\|.\|.\|.
specification as given by
.BR fspec (5).
.TP
.BI \-\|\- file
Read the first line of the file specified by
.IR file ,
searching for a format specification as given by
.BR fspec (5).
If this line contains a format specification, set the
.SM TAB
stops accordingly,
otherwise set them to every 8 columns.
This type of specification may be used to make sure that a file containing a
.SM TAB
specification is displayed with correct
.SM TAB 
settings.  For example, it can be used with the
.BR pr (1V)
command:
.RS
.IP
.B "tabs \-\|\-file; pr file"
.RE
If no
.I tabspec
is given, the default value
is
.BR \-8 ,
the standard default
.SM TAB
setting. The
lowest column number is 1. Note: for
.BR tabs ,
column 1 always refers to the leftmost column on a
terminal, even one whose column markers begin at 0,
(such as the
.SM DASI
300,
.SM DASI
300s,
and
.SM DASI
450).
.SM TAB
and margin setting is performed by echoing to the proper
sequences to the standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-T type
.B tabs
usually needs to know the type of terminal in
order to set
.SM TAB
characters, and always needs to know
to set margins.
.I type
is a name listed in
.BR term (5).
If no
.B \-T
flag is supplied,
.B tabs
uses the value of the environment variable
.SM
.BR TERM .
If
.SB TERM
is not defined in the environment (see
.BR environ (5V)),
.B tabs
tries a default sequence that will work for many terminals.
.TP
.BI +m n
The margin argument may be used for some terminals.
It moves all
.SM TAB
stops over
.I n
columns by making column
.IR n +1
the left margin. If
.B +m
is given without a value of
.IR n ,
the value assumed is 10. For
a TermiNet, the first value in the tab list should
be 1, or the margin will move even further to the
right. The normal (leftmost) margin on most terminals
is obtained by
.BR +m0 .
The margin for most terminals is reset only when the
.B +m
flag is given explicitly.
.\".SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\".TP
.\".B illegal tabs
.\".SM TAB
.\"characters are ordered incorrectly in the specification.
.\".TP
.\".B illegal increment
.\"A missing or zero increment is found in the specification.
.\".TP
.\".B unknown tab code
.\"An invalid predefined code was specified.
.\".TP
.\".B can't open
.\"The file named in the 
.\".BI \-\|\- file
.\"option could not be opened.
.\".TP
.\".B file indirection
.\"The
.\".BI \-\|\- file
.\"option was used and the specification in the file points to another file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pr (1V),
.BR tput (1V),
.BR environ (5V),
.BR fspec (5),
.BR term (5),
.BR terminfo (5V)
.br
.ne 15
.SH BUGS
There is no consistency between different terminals regarding
ways of clearing tabs and setting the left margin.
.LP
.B tabs
clears only 20 tabs (on terminals requiring a long
sequence), but is willing to set 64.
