.\" @(#)talk.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH TALK 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
talk \- talk to another user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B talk
.I username
[
.I ttyname
]
.IX  "talk command"  ""  "\fLtalk\fP \(em talk to another user"
.IX  communications  talk  ""  "\fLtalk\fP \(em talk to another user"
.IX  user  "talk to another"  ""  "talk to another \(em \fLtalk\fP"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B talk
is a visual communication program which
copies lines from your terminal
to that of another user.
.LP
If you wish to talk to someone on your own machine, then
.I username
is just the person's login name. If you wish to talk to
a user on another host, then
.I username
is one of the following forms :
.RS
.nf
.IB host ! user
.IB host . user
.IB host : user
.IB user @ host
.fi
.RE
though
.IB user @ host
is perhaps preferred.
.LP
If you want to talk to a user who is logged in more than once, the
.I ttyname
argument may be used to indicate the appropriate terminal name.
.LP
When first called,
.B talk
sends the message:
.RS
.IP
.nf
.BI "Message from TalkDaemon@" his_machine  at time .\|.\|.
.BI "talk: connection requested by " "your_name" @ "your_machine" .
.BI "talk: respond with: talk " your_name @ your_machine
.fi
.RE
to the user you wish to talk to.
At this point, the recipient of the
message should reply by typing:
.IP
.BI "example% talk " your_name @ your_machine
.LP
It does not matter from which machine the
recipient replies, as long as their login name
is the same.  Once communication is established, the two
parties may type simultaneously, with their output appearing in
separate windows.  Typing
.SM CTRL\s0\c
.B \-L
redraws the screen,
while your erase, kill, and word kill characters will work in
.B talk
as normal.  To exit, just type your interrupt character;
.B talk
then moves the cursor to the bottom
of the screen and restores the terminal.
.LP
Permission to talk may be denied or granted by use of the
.B mesg
command.  At the outset talking is allowed.
Certain commands, in particular
.BR nroff (1)
and
.BR pr (1V)
disallow messages in order to prevent messy output.
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/hosts
to find the recipient's machine
.TP
.B /etc/utmp
to find the recipient's tty
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mail (1),
.BR mesg (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR pr (1V),
.BR who (1),
.BR write (1),
.BR talkd (8C)
