.\" @(#)tektool.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH TEKTOOL 1 "15 June 1988"
.SH NAME
tektool \- SunView Tektronix 4014 terminal-emulator window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B tektool
[
.B \-s\c
[
.B lcdeg\c
[
.B ce
]\c
.B m\c
[
.B 12
] ] [
.B \-\c
[
.B cr
]
.I command-line
] [
.B \-f
.I fontdir
]
.IX  "tektool command"  ""  "\fLtektool\fP \(em emulate Tektronix 4014"
.IX  "emulate Tektronix 4014"  ""  "emulate Tektronix 4014 \(em \fLtektool\fP"
.IX  "Tektronix 4014, emulate \(em \fLtektool\fP"
.LP
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.TX SVBG 
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B tektool
emulates a Tektronix 4014 terminal with the enhanced graphics
module.
It does this in much the same way as shelltool (see
.BR shelltool (1))
emulates a regular glass tty.  When
.B tektool
is invoked, a command (usually a shell) is started up,
its output and input are connected to the emulator, and a new
window is formed.
The default window is the entire screen.
When the emulator is running, keys
.SM TF\s0(1)
through
.SM TF\s0(3),
(usually function keys F1-F3 (see
.BR kbd (4S))
have special meaning.
.TP 15
.SM TF\s0 (1)
Unshifted, this is the 4014
.SB PAGE
button.
Shifted, this is the 4014
.SB RESET
button.
.TP
.SM TF\s0 (2)
Copy screen.
The raster image
.RB  ( <rasterfile.h> )
of the 4014 screen is piped
to a command found in the
.SB TEKCOPY
environment variable.
If
.SB TEKCOPY
is not found in the environment,
.RB ` "lpr \-v" '
is used.
The copy button is unaffected by window manipulations, and will transmit
the contents of the 4014 screen only.
.TP
.SM TF\s0 (3)
Release page full condition.
.LP
These functions are also available through the tool menu.
When in graphics input (\s-1GIN\s0) mode
and the 4014 crosshairs are visible,
the left hand mouse button may be used as
the space bar to terminate
.SM GIN
mode.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-s
Specifies the Tektronix 4014 strap options with the following modifiers:
.IP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 4
l
Received
.SM LINEFEED 
characters also generate 
.SM RETURN 
characters.
.TP
c
Received 
.SM RETURN 
characters also generate 
.SM LINEFEED 
characters.
.TP
d
Received
.SM DELETE
characters are used as low order Y axis (
.SM LOY
) addresses.
.TP
e
Echo keyboard input.
.TP
g
Graphic input mode 
(\s-1GIN\s0) terminator
specification. If this strap is followed by a
.BR c ,
.SM GIN
mode data is terminated by a 
.SM RETURN 
character.
If it is followed by a
.BR e ,
.SM GIN
mode data is terminated by a
.SM RETURN 
character followed by an
.SM EOT
character.  If this strap is not present, no
characters are sent after
.SM GIN
mode data.
.TP
m
Page full control specification.
If this strap is followed by a
.BR 1 ,
.B tektool
will stop accepting tty input when a 
.SM LINEFEED
character is done past the last line in margin 1.
This is the 4014 page full condition.
The page full condition it released by a
.SB PAGE
or a
.SB RELEASE
or any 
.SM ASCII 
keyboard input.
If this strap is followed by a
.BR 2 ,
the page full condition happens at
the end of margin 2.
If this strap is not present, the page full condition never occurs.
.PD
.IP
If the
.B \-s
option is not given, the environment is searched for the
.SB TEKSTRAPS
variable which provides the modifiers.
The straps may also be set by the property sheet available by selecting the
.SB PROPS
menu item.
If no straps are specified the
.B d
strap is assumed.
.RE
.TP 15
.BI \-c " command-line"
Take terminal emulator input from a shell which in turn runs the
.I command-line
following the
.B \-c
option.
.br
.ne 10
.TP
.BI \-f " fontdir"
Look for fonts in the directory specified by
.IR fontdir .
The fonts must be called
.BR tekfont 0
through
.BR tekfont 3.
Fonts must be in
.BR vfont (5)
format.  If this option is not given,
the font directory is obtained from the
.SM TEKFONTS
environment variable (if it exists).
If no font directory is specified,
.B /usr/lib/fonts/tekfonts
is used.
.TP
.BI \-r " command-line"
Run
.I command-line
to provide input to the terminal emulator.
This must be the last option, since the remainder of the arguments are used
by the command.
.br
.ne 8
.br
.ne 4
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/fonts/tekfonts/tekfont[0-3]
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR shelltool (1),
.BR sunview (1),
.BR kbd (4S),
.BR vfont (5)
.LP
.TX INSTALL
.\".br
.\"Tektronix 4014 and 4014-1 Computer Display Terminal User's Manual (070-1647-00)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Special point plot mode is not supported.
.LP
Z-axis stuff, except for defocusing, is not supported.
.LP
Defocused alpha characters are not supported.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
.TP 20
.B copy command failed
The copy command in the
.SB TEKCOPY
environment variable or in the property sheet could not be executed.
.LP
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
Like all 4014 emulators, this does not duplicate every nuance of the 4014.
For instance, certain programs redraw stuff already on the screen in
order to highlight things with the storage flash.
This will not work here.
Also, even though the emulator supports the full 4096 point addressing of the
4014, it cannot display this on the screen.
All points will be rounded to the nearest available pixel.
This may cause some funny effects.
.LP
The
.B tektool
window may be treated just like other windows;
it can be overlaid, moved, reshaped etc.
However, when the window is reshaped, the contents will not scale.
