.\" @(#)telnet.1c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.TH TELNET 1C "17 December 1987"
.SH NAME
telnet \- user interface to a remote system using the TELNET protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B telnet
[
.I host
[
.I port
] ]
.IX  "telnet command"  ""  "\fLtelnet\fP \(em TELNET interface"
.IX  communications  telnet  ""  "\fLtelnet\fP \(em TELNET interface"
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B telnet
communicates with another host using the
.SM TELNET
protocol.  If
.B telnet
is invoked without arguments, it enters command mode, indicated by its
prompt (\c
.BR telnet> ).
In this mode, it accepts and executes the
commands listed below.  If it is
invoked with arguments, it performs an
.B open
command (see below) with those arguments.
.LP
Once a connection has been opened,
.B telnet
enters input mode.  In this mode, text
typed is sent to the remote host.
The input mode entered will be either
\*(lqcharacter at a time\*(rq
or \*(lqline by line\*(rq
depending on what the remote system supports.
.LP
In \*(lqcharacter at a time\*(rq mode, most
text typed is immediately sent to the remote host for processing.
.LP
In \*(lqline by line\*(rq mode, all text is echoed locally,
and (normally) only completed lines are sent to the remote host.
The \*(lqlocal echo character\*(rq (initially
.RB ` ^E ')
may be used
to turn off and on the local echo
(this would mostly be used to enter passwords
without the password being echoed).
.LP
In either mode, if the
.I localchars
toggle is
.SM TRUE
(the default in line mode; see below),
the user's
.BR quit ,
.BR intr ,
and
.B flush
characters are trapped locally, and sent as
.SM TELNET
protocol sequences to the remote side.
There are options (see
.B toggle
.B autoflush
and
.B toggle
.B autosynch
below)
which cause this action to flush subsequent output to the terminal
(until the remote host acknowledges the
.SM TELNET
sequence) and flush previous terminal input
(in the case of
.B quit
and
.BR intr ).
.LP
While connected to a remote host,
.B telnet
command mode may be entered by typing the
.B telnet
\*(lqescape character\*(rq (initially
.RB ` ^] ',
(control-right-bracket)).
When in command
mode, the normal terminal editing conventions are available.
.SH USAGE
.SS Telnet Commands
.LP
The following commands are available.
Only enough of each command to uniquely identify it need be typed
(this is also true for arguments to the
.BR mode ,
.BR set ,
.BR toggle ,
and
.B display
commands).
.LP
.TP
.B open \fIhost\fP \fR[\fP \fIport\fP \fR]\fP
Open a connection to the named host.  If no port number
is specified,
.B telnet
will attempt to contact a
.SM TELNET
server at the default port.
The host specification may be either a host name (see
.BR hosts (5))
or an Internet address specified in the \*(lqdot notation\*(rq (see
.BR inet (3N)).
.TP
.B close
Close a
.SM TELNET
session and return to command mode.
.TP
.B quit
Close any open
.SM TELNET
session and exit
.BR telnet .
An
.SM EOF
(in command mode) will also close a session and exit.
.TP
.B z
Suspend
.BR telnet .
This command only works when the user is using a shell that supports
job control, such as
.BR csh (1).
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B mode \fItype\fP
.I type
is either
.B line
(for \*(lqline by line\*(rq mode)
or
.I character
(for \*(lqcharacter at a time\*(rq mode).
The remote host is asked for permission to go into the requested mode.
If the remote host is capable of entering that mode, the requested
mode will be entered.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B status
Show the current status of
.BR telnet .
This includes the peer one is connected to, as well
as the current mode.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B display \fR[\fP \fIargument...\fP \fR]\fP
Display all, or some, of the
.B set
and
.B toggle
values (see below).
.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B ? \fR[\fP \fIcommand\fP \fR]\fP
Get help.  With no arguments,
.B telnet
prints a help summary.
If a command is specified,
.B telnet
will print the help information for just that command.
.br
.ne 6
.TP
.B send \fIarguments\fP
Send one or more special character sequences to the remote host.
The following are the arguments which may be specified
(more than one argument may be specified at a time):
.RS
.TP
.I escape
Send the current
.B telnet
escape character (initially
.RB ` ^] ').
.br
.ne 8
.TP
.I synch
Send the
.SM TELNET
.B SYNCH
sequence.
This sequence causes the remote system to discard all previously typed
(but not yet read) input.
This sequence is sent as
.SM TCP
urgent data (and may not work if the remote system is a 4.2
.SM BSD
system -- if it does not work, a lower
case \*(lqr\*(rq may be echoed on the terminal).
.TP
.B brk
Send the
.SM TELNET
.B
.SM BRK
(Break) sequence, which may have significance to the remote
system.
.TP
.B ip
Send the
.SM TELNET
.B \s-1IP\s0
(Interrupt Process) sequence, which should cause the remote
system to abort the currently running process.
.TP
.I ao
Sends the
.SM TELNET
.B
.SM AO
(Abort Output) sequence, which should cause the remote system to flush
all output
.B from
the remote system
.B to
the user's terminal.
.TP
.I ayt
Sends the
.SM TELNET
.B
.SM AYT
(Are You There)
sequence, to which the remote system may or may not choose to respond.
.TP
.B ec
Sends the
.SM TELNET
.B
.SM EC
(Erase Character)
sequence, which should cause the remote system to erase the last character
entered.
.TP
.I el
Sends the
.SM TELNET
.B
.SM EL
(Erase Line)
sequence, which should cause the remote system to erase the line currently
being entered.
.TP
.I ga
Sends the
.SM TELNET
.B
.SM GA
(Go Ahead)
sequence, which likely has no significance to the remote system.
.TP
.I nop
Sends the
.SM TELNET
.B
.SM NOP
(No Operation)
sequence.
.TP
.I ?
Prints out help information for the
.B send
command.
.RE
.TP
.B set \fIargument value\fP
Set any one of a number of
.B telnet
variables to a specific value.
The special value \*(lqoff\*(rq turns off the function associated with
the variable.
The values of variables may be interrogated with the
.B display
command.
The variables which may be specified are:
.RS
.TP
.B echo
This is the value (initially
.RB ` ^E ')
which, when in
\*(lqline by line\*(rq mode, toggles between doing local echoing
of entered characters (for normal processing), and suppressing
echoing of entered characters (for entering, say, a password).
.TP
.I escape
This is the
.B telnet
escape character (initially
.RB ` ^[ ')
which causes entry into
.B telnet
command mode (when connected to a remote system).
.br
.ne 4
.TP
.I interrupt
If
.B telnet
is in
.I localchars
mode (see
.B toggle
.I localchars
below)
and the
.I interrupt
character is typed, a
.SM TELNET
.B
.SM IP
sequence (see
.B send
.B ip
above)
is sent to the remote host.
The initial value for the interrupt character is taken to be
the terminal's
.B intr
character.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.I quit
If
.B telnet
is in
.I localchars
mode (see
.B toggle
.I localchars
below)
and the
.I quit
character is typed, a
.SM TELNET
.B
.SM BRK
sequence (see
.B send
.B brk
above)
is sent to the remote host.
The initial value for the quit character is taken to be
the terminal's
.B quit
character.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.I flushoutput
If
.B telnet
is in
.I localchars
mode (see
.B toggle
.I localchars
below)
and the
.I flushoutput
character is typed, a
.SM TELNET
.B
.SM AO
sequence (see
.B send
.I ao
above)
is sent to the remote host.
The initial value for the flush character is taken to be
the terminal's
.B flush
character.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.I erase
If
.B telnet
is in
.I localchars
mode (see
.B toggle
.I localchars
below),
.B and
if
.B telnet
is operating in \*(lqcharacter at a time\*(rq mode, then when this
character is typed, a
.SM TELNET
.B
.SM EC
sequence (see
.B send
.B ec
above)
is sent to the remote system.
The initial value for the erase character is taken to be
the terminal's
.B erase
character.
.TP
.B kill
If
.B telnet
is in
.I localchars
mode (see
.B toggle
.I localchars
below),
.B and
if
.B telnet
is operating in \*(lqcharacter at a time\*(rq mode, then when this
character is typed, a
.SM TELNET
.B
.SM EL
sequence (see
.B send
.I el
above)
is sent to the remote system.
The initial value for the kill character is taken to be
the terminal's
.B kill
character.
.TP
.I eof
If
.B telnet
is operating in \*(lqline by line\*(rq mode, entering this character
as the first character on a line will cause this character to be
sent to the remote system.
The initial value of the eof character is taken to be the terminal's
.B eof
character.
.RE
.TP
.B toggle \fIarguments...\fP
Toggle (between
.SM TRUE
and
.SM FALSE\s0)
various flags that control how
.B telnet
responds to events.
More than one argument may be specified.
The state of these flags may be interrogated with the
.B display
command.
Valid arguments are:
.RS
.TP
.I localchars
If this is
.SM TRUE\s0,
then the
.BR flush ,
.BR interrupt ,
.BR quit ,
.BR erase ,
and
.B kill
characters (see
.B set
above) are recognized locally, and
transformed into (hopefully) appropriate
.SM TELNET
control sequences
(respectively
.IR ao ,
.IR ip ,
.IR brk ,
.IR ec ,
and
.IR el ;
see
.B send
above).
The initial value for this toggle is
.SM TRUE
in \*(lqline by line\*(rq mode, and
.SM FALSE
in \*(lqcharacter at a time\*(rq mode.
.TP
.I autoflush
If
.I autoflush
and
.I localchars
are both
.SM TRUE\s0,
then when the
.IR ao ,
.IR intr ,
or
.I quit
characters are recognized (and transformed into
.SM TELNET
sequences; see
.B set
above for details),
.B telnet
refuses to display any data on the user's terminal
until the remote system acknowledges (via a
.SM TELNET
.I Timing Mark
option)
that it has processed those
.SM TELNET
sequences.
The initial value for this toggle is
.SM TRUE
if the terminal user had not
done an "stty noflsh", otherwise
.SM FALSE
(see
.BR stty(1V)).
.TP
.I autosynch
If
.I autosynch
and
.I localchars
are both
.SM TRUE\s0,
then when either the
.I intr
or
.I quit
characters is typed (see
.B set
above for descriptions of the
.I intr
and
.I quit
characters), the resulting
.SM TELNET
sequence sent is followed by the
.SM TELNET
.B
.SM SYNCH
sequence.
This procedure
.B should
cause the remote system to begin throwing away all previously
typed input until both of the
.SM TELNET
sequences have been read and acted upon.
The initial value of this toggle is
.SM FALSE\s0.
.br
.ne 6
.TP
.I crmod
Toggle 
.SM RETURN 
mode.
When this mode is enabled, most
.SM RETURN
characters received from
the remote host will be mapped into a
.SM RETURN
followed by a
.SM LINEFEED\s0.
This mode does not affect those characters typed by the user, only
those received from the remote host.
This mode is not very useful unless the remote host
only sends
.SM RETURN\s0,
but never
.SM LINEFEED\s0.
The initial value for this toggle is
.SM FALSE\s0.
.TP
.I debug
Toggle socket level debugging (useful only to the
super-user).
The initial value for this toggle is
.SM FALSE\s0.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.I options
Toggle the display of some internal
.B telnet
protocol processing (having to do with
.SM TELNET
options).
The initial value for this toggle is
.SM FALSE\s0.
.TP
.I netdata
Toggle the display of all network data (in hexadecimal format).
The initial value for this toggle is
.SM FALSE\s0.
.TP
.I ?
Display the legal
.B toggle
commands.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR csh (1),
.BR rlogin (1C),
.BR stty (1V)
.BR inet (3N),
.BR hosts (5)
.SH BUGS
.LP
There is no adequate way for dealing with flow control.
.LP
On some remote systems, echo has to be turned off manually when in
\*(lqline by line\*(rq mode.
.LP
There is enough settable state to justify a
.B .telnetrc
file.
.LP
No capability for a
.B .telnetrc
file is provided.
.LP
In \*(lqline by line\*(rq mode, the terminal's
.SM EOF
character is only recognized (and sent to the remote system)
when it is the first character on a line.
