.\" @(#)test.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD and S5
.TH TEST 1V "15 December 1988"
.SH NAME
test \- return true or false according to a conditional expression
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B test
.I expression
.LP
[
.I expression
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "System V commands" "\fLtest\fR"
.IX  "test command"  ""  "\fLtest\fP \(em condition command"
.B test
evaluates the expression
.I expression
and, if its value is true, returns a zero (true)
exit status; otherwise, a
non-zero (false) exit status is returned.
.B test
returns a non-zero exit if there are no arguments.
.SH USAGE
.SS Primitives
.LP
The following primitives are used to construct
.IR expression .
.TP 9n
.BI \-b " filename"
True if
.I filename
exists and is a block special device.
.TP
.BI \-c " filename"
True if
.I filename
exists and is a character special device.
.TP
.BI \-d " filename"
True if
.I filename
exists and is a directory.
.TP
.BI \-f " filename"
True if
.I filename
exists and is not a directory.
.TP
.BI \-g " filename"
True if
.I filename
exists and its set-group-\c
.SM ID
bit is set.
.TP
.BI \-h " filename"
True if
.I filename
exists and is a symbolic link.
.TP
.BI \-k " filename"
True if
.I filename
exists and its sticky bit is set.
.TP
.BI \-l " string"
the length of the string.
.TP
.BI \-n " s1"
True if the length of the string
.I s1
is non-zero.
.TP
.BI \-p " filename"
True if
.I filename
exists and is a named pipe (\c
.SM FIFO\s0).
.TP
.BI \-r " filename"
True if
.I filename
exists and is readable.
.TP
.BI \-s " filename"
True if
.I filename
exists and has a size greater than zero.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR\ [\fI\ fildes\ \fR]
True if the open file whose file descriptor number is
.I fildes
(1 by default)
is associated with a terminal device.
.TP
.BI \-u " filename"
True if
.I filename
exists and its set-user-\c
.SM ID
bit is set.
.TP
.BI \-w " filename"
True if
.I filename
exists and is writable.
.TP
.BI \-x " filename"
True if
.I filename
exists and is executable.
.TP
.BI \-z " s1"
True if the length of string
.I s1
is zero.
.TP
.IB s1 " = " s2
True
if the strings
.I s1
and
.I s2
are equal.
.TP
.IB s1 " != " s2
True
if the strings
.I s1
and
.I s2
are not equal.
.TP
.I s1
True if
.I s1
is not the null string.
.TP
.IB n1 " \-eq " n2
True if the integers
.I n1
and
.I n2
are numerically equal.
.TP
.IB n1 " \-ne " n2
True if the integer
.I n1
is not numerically equal to the integer
.IR n2 .
.TP
.IB n1 " \-gt " n2
True if the integer
.I n1
is numerically greater than the integer
.IR n2 .
.TP
.IB n1 " \-ge " n2
True if the integer
.I n1
is numerically greater than or equal to the integer
.IR n2 .
.TP
.IB n1 " \-lt " n2
True if the integer
.I n1
is numerically less than the integer
.IR n2 .
.TP
.IB n1 " \-le " n2
True if the integer
.I n1
is numerically less than or equal to the integer
.IR n2 .
.ne 4
.SS Operators
.LP
The above primaries may be combined with the
following operators:
.RS
.TP
.B  !
Unary negation operator.
.TP
.B  \-a
Binary
.I and
operator.
.TP
.B  \-o
Binary
.I or
operator.
.TP
.BI ( expression )
Parentheses for grouping.
.RE
.LP
.B \-a
has higher precedence than
.B \-o.
Notice that all the operators and flags are separate
arguments to
.BR test .
Notice also that parentheses are meaningful
to the Shell and must be escaped.
.SH SYSTEM V USAGE
The actions of the System V version of
.B test
are the same, except for the following primitives:
.TP 12
.BI \-f " filename"
True if
.I filename
exists and is a regular file.
.TP
.BI \-l " string"
Not supported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR find (1),
.BR sh (1)
.SH WARNING
In the second form of the command (that is, the one that uses
.BR [\|] ,
rather than the word
.BR test ),
the square brackets must be delimited by blanks.
.LP
Some
.SM UNIX
systems do not recognize the second form of the command.
.SH NOTES
The
.B test
command is built into the Bourne shell, which chooses the 4.2
.SM BSD
or the System V version of
.BR test ,
depending on whether
.B /usr/5bin
appears before
.B /usr/bin
in the shell's
.B
.SM PATH
variable.  This is consistent with the behavior of other
commands present in both
.B /usr/bin
and
.BR /usr/5bin .
.LP
The fact that
.B test
is built into the shell also means that a program named
.B test
cannot be run without specifying a pathname; if the program is in the
current directory,
.B .\|/\|test
will suffice.


