.\" Copyright (c) 1986 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)tftp.1c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3 BSD
.\"
.TH TFTP 1C "26 February 1988"
.SH NAME
tftp \- trivial file transfer program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tftp
[
.I host
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "tftp command" "" "\fLtftp\fR command"  
.IX files  transfer
.IX "file transfer protocol"  "trivial, \fLtftp\fP command" 
.LP
.B tftp
is the user interface to the Internet
.SM TFTP
(Trivial File Transfer Protocol),
which allows users to transfer files to and from a remote machine.
The remote
.I host
may be specified on the command line, in which case
.B tftp
uses
.I host
as the default host for future transfers (see the
.B connect
command below).
.SH USAGE
.SS Commands
Once
.B tftp
is running, it issues the prompt:
.B tftp>
and recognizes the following commands:
.TP
.BI connect " host-name " [ " port " ]
Set the
.I host
(and optionally
.IR port )
for transfers.
Note: the
.SM TFTP
protocol, unlike the
.SM FTP
protocol, does not maintain connections between transfers; thus, the
.B connect
command does not actually create a connection,
but merely remembers what host is to be used for transfers.
You do not have to use the
.B connect
command; the remote host can be specified as part of the
.B get
or
.B put
commands.
.TP
.BI mode " transfer-mode"
Set the mode for transfers;
.I transfer-mode
may be one of
.BR ascii
or
.BR binary .
The default is
.BR ascii .
.TP
.BI put " filename"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI put " localfile remotefile"
.TP
.PD
\fBput\fP \fIfilename1 filename2 .\|.\|. filenameN remote-directory\fP
Transfer a file, or a set of files, to the specified
remote file or directory.  The destination
can be in one of two forms:
a filename on the remote host if the host has already been specified,
or a string of the form
.RS
.IP
.IB host : filename
.RE
.IP
to specify both a host and filename at the same time.
If the latter form is used,
the specified host becomes the default for future transfers.
If the remote-directory form is used, the remote host is
assumed to be running the
.SM UNIX
system.
.PD 0
.TP
.BI get " filename"
.TP
.BI get " remotename localname"
.TP
.PD
\fBget\fP \fIfilename1 filename2\fP .\|.\|. \fI filenameN\fR
Get a file or set of files from the specified remote
.IR sources .
.I source
can be in one of two forms:
a filename on the remote host if the host has already been specified,
or a string of the form
.RS
.IP
.IB host : filename
.RE
.IP
to specify both a host and filename at the same time.
If the latter form is used,
the last host specified becomes the default for future transfers.
.TP
.B quit
Exit
.BR tftp .
An
.SM EOF
also exits.
.TP
.B verbose
Toggle verbose mode.
.TP
.B trace
Toggle packet tracing.
.TP
.B status
Show current status.
.TP
.BI rexmt " retransmission-timeout"
Set the per-packet retransmission timeout, in seconds.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.BI timeout " total-transmission-timeout"
Set the total transmission timeout, in seconds.
.TP
.B ascii
Shorthand for
.BR "mode ascii" .
.TP
.B binary
Shorthand for
.BR "mode binary" .
.TP
.BI "? [ " command-name " .\|.\|. ]"
Print help information.
.SH WARNING
.LP
The default
.I transfer-mode
is
.BR ascii .
This differs from pre-4.0 Sun (and pre-4.3
.SM BSD\s0)
releases, so explicit action must now be taken
when transferring non-\c
\s-2ASCII\s0
files such as executable commands.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Because there is no user-login or validation within
the
.SM TFTP
protocol, many remote sites restrict file access in various ways.
Approved methods for file access are specific to each site, and
therefore cannot be documented here.
