.\" @(#)time.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.1
.TH TIME 1V "19 September 1989"
.SH NAME
time \- time a command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B time
[
.I command
]
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/time
[
.I command
]
.IX  "time command"  ""  "\fLtime\fP \(em time command"
.IX  "performance monitoring"  time  ""  "\fLtime\fP \(em time command"
.IX  "programming tools"  time  ""  "\fLtime\fP \(em time command"
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "System V commands" "\fLtime\fR"
.LP
There are three distinct versions of
.BR time :
it is built in to the C shell, and is an
executable program available in
.B /usr/bin/time
and
.B /usr/5bin/time
when using the Bourne shell.
In each case, times are displayed on the diagnostic output stream.
.LP
In the case of the C shell, a
.B time
command with no
.I command
argument simply displays a summary of
time used by this shell and its children.
When arguments are given the specified simple
.I command
is timed and the C shell displays a time
summary as described in
.BR csh (1).
.LP
The
.B time
commands in
.B /usr/bin/time
and
.B /usr/5bin/time
time the given
.IR command ,
which must be specified, that is,
.I command
is not optional as it is in the C shell's timing facility.  When the
command is complete,
.B time
displays the elapsed time during the command, the time
spent in the system, and the time spent in execution of the command.
Times are reported in seconds.
The only difference between the versions in
.B /usr/bin/time
and
.B /usr/5bin/time
is between their output formats;
.B /usr/bin/time
prints all three times on the same line, while
.B /usr/5bin/time
prints them on separate lines.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The three examples here show the differences between the
.B csh
version of
.B time
and the versions in
.B /usr/bin/time
and
.BR /usr/bin/time .
The example assumes that
.B csh
is the shell in use.
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
.ft B
example% time wc /usr/share/man/man1/csh.1
1876   11223   65895 /usr/share/man/man1/csh.1
2.7u 0.9s 0:03 91% 3+5k 19+2io 1pf+0w
example%/usr/bin/time wc /usr/share/man/man1/csh.1
1876   11223   65895 /usr/share/man/man1/csh.1
4.3 real         2.7 user         1.0 sys
example% /usr/5bin/time wc /usr/share/man/man1/csh.1
1876   11223   65895 /usr/share/man/man1/csh.1
real        4.3
user        2.7
sys         1.0
example%
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR csh (1)
.br
.ne 15
.SH BUGS
.LP
Elapsed time is accurate to the second, while the
.SM CPU
times are measured to the 50th second.  Thus the sum of the
.SM CPU
times can be up to a
second larger than the elapsed time.
.LP
When the command being timed is interrupted, the timing values
displayed may not always be accurate.
