.\" @(#)toolplaces.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH TOOLPLACES 1 "12 January 1988"
.SH NAME
toolplaces \- display current SunView window locations, sizes, and other attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B toolplaces
[
.B \-o|O|u
]
[
.B \-help
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.TX SVBG 
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX toolplaces "" "\fLtoolplaces\fR \(em show current window info"
.LP
.B toolplaces
generates position, size, label, and program attributes
for the windows running on a SunView screen at the time of
execution.
.RB ( toolplaces
does not work when SunView is not running.)
.LP
Many people redirect standard output from
.B toolplaces
to the
.B \&.sunview
file, so as to reuse the current window system
attributes each time they execute
.BR sunview (1).
.LP
For each window on the screen at execution time,
.B toolplaces
shows:
.LP
.nf
.RS
the tool name
the \*(lqopen\*(rq window position
the size of the window in pixels
the \*(lqclosed,\*(rq or icon, window position
an indicator of whether the window is open or closed
the label at the top of the window
the name of the program running in the window, if a
.RS
program is running there
.RE
any flags or options to a program running in the window
.RE
.fi
.LP
.B toolplaces
describes each window
on one output line, as long as necessary,
using the current
.B sunview
format.
.LP
Current
.B sunview
format consists of window tool descriptions,
one per line, as in this example (the
.B \e
indicates that the current line
continues on the next line):
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
shelltool  \-Wp  491 795 \-Ws 580  87 \-WP    0 836 \-C 
clock  \-Wp  120 120 \-Ws 122  55 \-WP 1086 826 \-Wi \e
	\-Wl " open clock" \-S \-r \-d wdm 
shelltool  \-Wp  491 166 \-Ws 650 567 \-WP  702 836 \\
	\-Wl due rlogin due 
shelltool  \-Wp    0   0 \-Ws 650 525 \-WP   64 836 \\
	\-Wl "Small Window: /usr/bin/csh" 
shelltool  \-Wp  501   0 \-Ws 650 812 \-WP  128 836 \\
	\-Wl "Big Window: /usr/bin/csh"
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-o
Show window tool information in the old
.B suntools
format for window attributes, but specifies
the appropriate tool names for each tool.
.TP 
.B \-O
Show window tool information in the old
.B suntools
format for window attributes, specifying
.B toolname
as the name for each tool.
.TP
.B \-u
Show the updated window tool information in the order that you
originally specified it.
.TP
.B \-help
Show help information preceding tool attributes.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B ~/.sunview
format file for 
.BR sunview (1)
.PD
.br
.ne 5
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sunview (1)
.LP
.TX SVBG
