.\" @(#)touch.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from 4.2 BSD and S5R2 6.2 9/2/83
.TH TOUCH 1V "19 September 1989"
.SH NAME
touch \- update the access and modification times of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B touch
[
.B \-c
] [
.B \-f
]
.IR filename .\|.\|.
.SH SYSTEM V SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/touch
[
.BR \-acm
] [
.IR date-time
]
.IR filename .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
The System V version of this command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "System V commands" "\fLtouch\fR"
.IX  "touch command"  ""  "\fLtouch\fP \(em update last modified date of file"
.IX  "update last modified date of file"  ""  "update last modified date of file \(em \fLtouch\fP"
.IX  file  "update last modified date of"  ""  "update last modified date of \(em \fLtouch\fP"
.IX  "programming tools"  touch  ""  "\fLtouch\fP \(em update last modified date of file"
.B touch
sets the access and modification times of each
argument to the current time.
A file is created if it does not already exist.
.LP
.B touch
is valuable when used in conjunction with
.BR make (1),
where, for instance, you might want to force a complete rebuild of a
program composed of many pieces.  In such a case, you might type:
.RS
.IP
.nf
.B example% \fBtouch  *.c\fP
.B example% \fBmake\fP
.fi
.RE
.LP
.BR make (1)
would then see that all the
.B .c
files were more
recent than the corresponding
.B .o
files, and would start
the compilation from scratch.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
Do not create
.I filename
if it does not exist.
.TP
.B \-f
Attempt to force the touch in spite of read and write permissions on
.IR filename .
.SH SYSTEM V OPTIONS
.LP
Options must be grouped to form the first argument.  The
.I date-time
argument takes the form:
.IP
.IR mmddhhmm [ yy ]
.LP
and updates the modification time to that specified, rather than the
current time.
The first
.I mm
is the month,
.B dd
is the day of the month,
.I hh
is the hour, and the second
.I mm
is the minute.  If
.I yy
is specified, it is the last two digits
of the year.  If omitted, the current year is assumed.
.TP
.B \-a
Update only the access time.
.TP
.B \-c
Do not create
.I filename
if it does not exist.
.TP
.B \-m
Update only the modification time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR make (1),
.BR utimes (2)
.SH BUGS
It is difficult to touch a file whose name
consists entirely of digits in
the System V
.BR touch ,
as it will interpret the first such non-flag
argument as a time.  You must
ensure that there is a character in the
name which is not a digit, by
specifying it as
.BI .\|/ name
rather than
.IR name .
