.\" @(#)traffic.1c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH TRAFFIC 1C "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
traffic \- SunView program to display Ethernet traffic
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B traffic
[
.B \-h
.I host
] [
.B \-s
.I subwindows
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available when both the
.I Networking
and the
.I SunView User's
software options are installed.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX traffic "" "\fLtraffic\fR \(em show Ethernet traffic"
.B traffic
graphically displays ethernet traffic.  It gets statistics from
.BR etherd (8C),
running on machine
.IR host .
The tool is divided into subwindows,
each giving a different view of network traffic.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.BI \-h " host"
Specify a host from which to get statistics.
The default value of
.I host
is the machine that
.BR traffic
is running on.
.TP
.BI \-s \ subwindows
Specify the number of subwindows to display initially.
The default value of
.I subwindows
is 1.
.SH SUBWINDOWS
.LP
To the right of each subwindow is a panel that selects what
the subwindow is viewing.  When
.I Size
is checked,
than the size distribution of packets is displayed.
.I Proto
is for protocol,
\fISrc\fP is for source of packet, and
.I Dst
is for destination of packet.  Since it is not possible to
show all possible sources, when
.I Src
is selected, only the
8 highest sources are displayed (and similarly for
.I Dst
).
.LP
For each of these choices, the distribution is displayed by
a histogram.  The panel above each subwindow controls characteristics
of the histograms.  At the left of the panel is a shaded square,
corresponding to one of the two shades of bars in the histogram.
You can switch the shade by either clicking on the square with the
left button, or bringing up a menu over the square with the right mouse
button.
When the light colored square is visible, then
the slider in the center of the panel controls how often the
light colored bars are updated.  When the dark square is visible,
then the slider refers to the dark bars of the histogram.  To the
right of the slider is a choice of
.I Abs
versus
.IR Rel .
This selects whether the height of the histogram is
.I Absolute
in packets per second, or
.I Relative
in percent of total packets
on the ethernet.  Next in the panel are three small horizontal bars.
When selected (that is, when a check mark appears to the left of
the three bars),
a horizontal grid appears on the histogram.
Finally the button marked
.I Delete Me
will delete the subwindow.
.LP
The right hand panel also has a choice for
.I Load
Load is
represented as a strip chart, rather than a histogram.
The maximum value of the
graph represents a load of 100%, that is 10 megabits per second
on the ethernet.  When
.I Load
is selected, there is only one
slider, and no
.I Rel
versus
.I Abs
choice.
.LP
At the very top of the tool is a panel that contains filters, as
well as a
.I Split
button that splits the tool and creates
a new subwindow, and a
.I Quit
button that exits the tool.
The filters apply to all the subwindows.  When a filter is selected,
a check mark appears to the left of the word
.IR Filter .
There can be
more than one filter active at the same time.
The meaning of each filter is as follows.
.I Src
is
a host or net, which can be specified either by name or address
(similarly for
\fIDst\fP).
.I Proto
is an ip protocol, and
can either be a name (such as
.IR udp ,
.IR icmp )
or a number.
.I Lnth
is either a packet length, or a range of
lengths
separated by a dash.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR etherd (8C)
.SH BUGS
If multiple copies of
.B traffic
are using the same copy of
.BR etherd ,
and one of them invokes a filter,
then all the copies of
.B traffic
will be filtered.
