.\" @(#)troff.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH TROFF 1 "21 December 1987"
.SH NAME
troff \- typeset or format documents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B troff
[
.B \-abfiqtwz
] [
.BI \-m package
] [
.BI \-n N
] [
.BI \-o pagelist
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.BI \-p N
] [
.BI \-r aN
]
.if t .ti +0.5i 
[
.BI \-s N
] [
.I filenames
] .\|.\|.
.IX  "troff command"  ""  "\fLtroff\fP \(em typeset documents"
.IX  "typeset documents"  ""  "typeset documents \(em \fLtroff\fP"
.IX  "document production"  troff  ""  "\fLtroff\fP \(em typeset documents"
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I Text
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B troff
formats text in the 
.IR filename s.
For historical reasons, output goes to a CAT/4 phototypesetter attached to
.BR /dev/cat ,
but nobody uses a CAT/4 anymore.
Ordinarily, postprocessing software converts output to a form
that can be printed on newer typesetters or laser printers.
Default font width tables correspond to Times Roman on PostScript\(tm printers.
See also the
.BR nroff (1)
manual page, which describes a formatter for typewriter-like devices.
.LP
Input to 
.B troff
is expected to consist of text interspersed with formatting
requests and macros.  If no
.I filename
argument is present,
.B troff
reads standard input.  A
.RB ` \- '
as a
.IR filename
argument indicates that standard input is to be read at that point in
the list of input files;
.B troff
reads the files named ahead of the
.RB ` \- '
in the arguments list, then text from the standard input, and then text
from the files named after the
.RB ` \- '.
.LP
If the file
.B /etc/adm/tracct
is writable,
.B troff
keeps printer accounting records there.
The integrity of that file may be secured by making
.B troff
a \*(lqset-user-ID\*(rq program (see 
.BR chmod (1V)
for details on the
.B setuid
permission bit.)
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options may appear in any order, but they all must appear before the
first
.IR filename .
.RS
.TP
.B \-a
Send a printable
.SM ASCII
approximation of the results to the standard output.
.TP
.B \-i
Read the standard input after the input files are exhausted.
.TP
.B \-q
Disable echoing during a
.B .rd
request.
.TP
.B \-t
Direct output to the standard output instead of the printer.
Since this output is non-\c
.SM ASCII
it is generally redirected to
.BR "lpr \-t" .
.TP
.BI \-m package
Prepend the macro file
.BI /usr/lib/tmac/tmac. package
to the input
.IR filename s.
(Note that most references to macro packages include 
the leading \*(lq\fBm\fP\*(rq as part of the name; the
.BR man (7)
macro package resides in
.BR /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.an ).
.TP
.BI \-n N
Number first generated page
.IR N .
.TP
.BI \-o list
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in the comma-separated
.I list
of numbers and ranges.  A range
.IB N \- M
means pages
.I N
through
.IR M ;
an initial
.BI \- N
means from the beginning to page
.IR N ;
and a final
.IB N \-
means from
.I N
to the end.
.TP
.BI \-r aN
Set register
.I a
(one-character) to
.IR N .
.RE
.LP
Some options of
.B troff
only apply if you have a CAT/4 typesetter attached to your system.
These options remain present for backward compatibility.
However, this version of
.B troff
does not support this typesetter by default.
.RS
.TP
.B \-b
Report whether the typesetter is busy or available.
No text processing is done.
.TP
.B \-f
Refrain from feeding paper out and stopping
at the end of the print job on the typesetter.
.TP
.B \-w
Wait until typesetter is available, if currently busy.
.TP
.B \-z
Suppress all formatted output.  Display only terminal messages
produced by
.B .tm
requests and diagnostics.
.br
.ne 7
.TP
.BR \-p N
Print all characters in point size
.I  N
while retaining all prescribed spacings and motions,
to reduce elapsed time on the typesetter.
.TP
.BI \-s N
Stop the phototypesetter every
.I N
pages.
.B troff
produces a trailer so you can change cassettes; resume by
pressing the typesetter's start button.
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /tmp/ta*
temporary file
.TP
.B /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.*
standard macro files
.TP
.B /usr/lib/term/*
terminal driving tables for
.B nroff
.TP
.B /usr/lib/font/*
font width tables for alternate mounted
.B troff
fonts
.TP
.B /dev/cat
phototypesetter
.TP
.B /etc/adm/tracct
accounting statistics for
.B /dev/cat
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR checknr (1), 
.BR chmod (1V),
.BR col (1V),
.BR eqn (1),
.BR lpr (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR tbl (1),
.BR printcap (5),
.BR man (7),
.BR me (7),
.BR ms (7),
.BR lpd (8)
.LP
.TX DOCS
.br
.TX TROFF
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B "No /dev/cat: try \-t or \-a"
The CAT/4 typesetter is not accessible from your machine.
Combine the
.B \-t
option of
.B troff
with the
.B \-t
option of
.BR lpr (1)
to get output on a laser printer or typesetter.
For information on how to inform
.BR lpd (8)
of a PostScript printer attached to a remote host, see
.BR printcap (5).
.SH NOTES
.B troff
is not 8-bit clean because
it is by design based on 7-bit
.SM ASCII.
