.\" @(#)tset.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"-m in options
.TH TSET 1 "18 December 1989"
.SH NAME
tset, reset  \- establish or restore terminal characteristics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tset
[
.B \-InQrsS
] [
.BI \-e c
] [
.BI \-k c
] [
.B \-m
.RI [ port "\-ID" 
.if n .ti +0.5i 
[
.IR baudrate "] : " type
.RI "] .\|.\|. ] [" type ]
.LP
.B reset
[
.B \-
] [
.BI \-e c
] [
.B \-I
] [
.BI \-k c
]
[
.B \-n
] 
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.B \-Q
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-S
]
.if t .ti +0.5i
.B \-m
[
.I indent
]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[
.I test
.I baudrate
]:
.I type
] .\|.\|. [
.I type
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "reset command"  ""  "\fLreset\fP \(em reset terminal bits"
.IX  "reset terminal bits"  ""  "reset terminal bits \(em \fLreset\fP"
.IX  terminal  "reset bits"  ""  "reset bits \(em \fLreset\fP"
.IX  "tset command"  ""  "\fLtset\fP \(em set terminal characteristics"
.IX  set "terminal characteristics \(em \fLtset\fP"
.IX  terminal  "set characteristics"  ""  "set characteristics \(em \fLtset\fP"
.IX  "login environment"  tset  ""  "\fLtset\fP \(em set terminal characteristics"
.IX  environment  tset  ""  "\fLtset\fP \(em set terminal characteristics for"
.IX  "tty, set characteristics \(em \fLtset\fP"
.LP
.B tset
sets up your terminal, typically  when you first log in.
It does terminal dependent processing such as setting
erase and kill characters, setting or resetting delays,
sending any sequences needed to properly initialized the terminal,
and the like.
.B tset
first determines the
.I type
of terminal involved,
and then does necessary initializations and mode settings.
The type of terminal attached to each
port is specified in the
.B /etc/ttytab
database.  Type names for terminals may be found in
the
.BR termcap (5)
database.
If a port is not wired permanently to a
specific terminal (not hardwired)
it is given an appropriate generic identifier such as
.BR dialup .
.LP
.B reset
clears the terminal settings by turning off 
.SM CBREAK
and 
.SM RAW
modes, output delays and parity checking, turns on
.SM NEWLINE
translation, echo and
.SM TAB
expansion, and restores undefined special characters
to their default state.   It then sets the modes as usual, based on
the terminal type (which will probably override some of the above).
(See
.BR stty (1V)
for more information.) All arguments to
.B tset
may be used with
.BR reset .
.B reset
also uses the
.B rs=
and
.B rf=
(reset string and file)
instead of the initialization string and file from
.BR /etc/termcap .
This is useful after a program dies and leaves the terminal in a funny
state.  Often in this situation,
characters will not echo as you type them.
You may have to type
.RB ` \s-1LINEFEED\s0\|reset\|\s-1LINEFEED\s0 '
since
.RB ` \s-1RETURN\s0 '
may not work.
.LP
When no arguments are specified,
.B tset
reads the terminal type from the
.B
.SM TERM
environment variable
and re-initializes the terminal, and
performs initialization of mode, environment and other options at login
time to determine the terminal type and set up terminal modes.
.LP
When used in a startup script
.RB ( \&.profile
for
.BR sh (1)
users or
.B \&.login
for
.BR csh (1)
users) it is desirable to give information about the type of terminal
you will usually use on ports that are not hardwired.
These ports are identified in
.B /etc/ttyab
as
.B dialup
or
.BR plugboard ,
etc.
.\".BR arpanet ,
.\"etc.
.\"To specify what terminal type you usually use on these ports, the
.\".B \-m
.\" (map) option flag is followed by the appropriate port type identifier,
.\"an optional baud rate specification, and the terminal type.
.\"(The effect is to \*(lqmap\*(rq from some conditions to a terminal type,
.\"that is, to tell
.\".I tset
.\"\*(lqIf I'm on this kind of port, guess that I'm on that kind of terminal\*(rq.)
.\"If more than one mapping is specified, the first applicable mapping prevails.
.\"A missing port type identifier matches all identifiers.
.\" from comments by Bill Joy
Any of the alternate generic names given in
.B /etc/termcap
may be used for the identifier.
Refer to the
.B \-m
option under
\s-1OPTIONS\s0
for more information.
.\".LP
.\"A 
.\".I baudrate
.\"is specified as with
.\".IR stty ,
.\"and is compared with the
.\"speed of the diagnostic output (which should be the control terminal).
.\"The 
.\".I test
.\"portion of the optional
.\".I baudrate
.\"specifier may be any
.\"combination of:
.\".BR > ,
.\".BR @ ,
.\".BR < ,
.\"and
.\".BR ! ;
.\".B @
.\"means \*(lqat\*(rq and
.\".B !
.\"inverts the sense of the test.  To avoid problems with metacharacters, it
.\"is best to place the entire argument to
.\".B \-m
.\"within single-quote (') characters; users of
.\".I csh
.\"must also put a \*(lq\e\*(rq before any \*(lq!\*(rq used here.
.\".LP
.\".KS
.\"Thus, the command
.\".IP
.\".B
.\"tset \-m \'dialup>300:adm3a\' -m dialup:dw2 -m \'plugboard:?adm3a\'
.\".KE
.\".LP
.\"sets the terminal type to
.\".B adm3a
.\"if the port in use is a dialup at a speed greater than 300 baud; to a
.\".B dw2
.\"if the port is (otherwise) a dialup (that is, at 300 baud or less).
.\"(NOTE: some of the examples given here appear to take up more than
.\"one line, for text processing reasons.  When you type in real
.\".I tset
.\".\"commands, you must enter them entirely on one line.)
.\".LP
.\"If the
.\".I type
.\"finally determined by
.\".I tset
.\"begins with a question mark,
.\"the user is asked if he really wants that type.
.\"A null response means to use that type;
.\"otherwise, another type can be entered which will be used instead.
.\"Thus, in the above case, the user is queried on a plugboard port
.\"as to whether she is actually using an
.\".BR adm3a .
.\".LP
If no mapping applies and a final
.I type
option, not preceded by a
.BR \-m ,
is given on the command line then that type is used;
otherwise the type found in the
.B /etc/ttytab
database is used as the terminal type.
This should always be the case for hardwired ports.
.LP
It is usually desirable to return the
terminal type, as finally determined by
.BR tset ,
and information about the terminal's capabilities,
to a shell's environment.  This can be done using the
.BR \- ,
.BR \-s ,
or
.B \-S
options.  (Refer to
\s-1OPTIONS\s0
for more information.)
.LP
For the Bourne shell, put this command in your
.B .profile
file:
.IP
.B eval \`tset \-s
.IB options... \`
.LP
or using the C shell, put this command in your
.B .login
file:
.IP
.B eval \`tset \-s
.IB options... \`
.LP
With the C shell, it is also convenient to make an alias in your
.B .cshrc
file:
.IP
.B alias tset \'eval \`tset \-s \e!*\`\'
.LP
This also allows the command:
.IP
.B tset 2621
.LP
to be invoked at any time to set the terminal and environment.
.I Note to Bourne Shell users:
It is
.I not
possible to get this aliasing effect with a shell script,
because shell scripts cannot set the environment of their parent.
If a process could set its parent's environment,
none of this nonsense would be necessary in the first place.
.LP
Once the terminal type is known,
.B tset
sets the terminal driver mode.
This normally involves sending an initialization sequence to the
terminal, setting the single character erase (and optionally
the line-kill (full line erase)) characters,
and setting special character delays.
.SM TAB
and
.SM NEWLINE
expansion are turned off during transmission of
the terminal initialization sequence.
.LP
On terminals that can backspace but not overstrike (such as a
\s-1CRT\s0),
and when the erase character is
.RB ` # ',
the erase character is changed as if
.B -e
had been used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-
The name of the terminal finally decided
upon is output on the standard output.
This is intended to be captured by the shell and placed in the
.B
.SM TERM
environment variable.
.TP
.BI \-e c
Set the erase character to be the named character
.I c
on all terminals.
Default is the backspace key on the keyboard, usually
.BR ^H " (\s-1CTRL\s0-H)."
The character
.I c
can either be typed directly, or entered using
the circumflex-character notation used here.
.TP
.BI \-i c
Set the interrupt character to be the named character
.I c
on all terminals.
Default is
.BR ^C " (\s-1CTRL\s0-C)."
The character
.I c
can either be typed directly, or entered using
the circumflex-character notation used here.
.TP
.B \-I
Suppress transmitting terminal-initialization strings.
.TP
.BI \-k c
Set the line kill character to be the named character
.I c
on all terminals.
Default is
.BR ^U " (\s-1CTRL\s0-U)."
The kill character is left alone if
.B \-k
is not specified.
Control characters can be specified by prefixing the alphabetical
character with a circumflex (as in \s-1CTRL\s0-U)
instead of entering the
actual control key itself.  This allows you to specify control keys
that are currently assigned.
.TP
.B \-n
.\"On systems with the Berkeley 4BSD tty driver,
Specify that the new tty driver modes should be initialized for this
terminal.  Probably useless since
.B stty new
is the default.
.\"For a \s-2CRT\s0,
.\"the CRTERASE and CRTKILL modes are set only if the baud rate is 1200 or greater.
.TP
.B \-Q
Suppress printing the
.RB ` "Erase set to" '
and
.RB ` "Kill set to" '
messages.
.TP
.B \-r
In addition to other actions, reports the terminal type.
.TP
.B \-s
Output commands to set and export
.B
.SM TERM
and
.B
.SM TERMCAP\s0\fR.
This can be used with
.RS 
.RS
.nf
.ft B
set noglob
eval \`tset \-s .\|.\|.\`
unset noglob
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.RE
.IP
to bring the terminal information into the environment.
Doing so makes programs such as
.BR vi (1)
start up faster.
If the
.B
.SM SHELL
environment variable ends with
.BR csh ,
C shell commands are output, otherwise Bourne
shell commands are output.
.br
.ne 8
.TP
.B \-S
.ne 7
Similar to the
.B \-s
option, but produces two strings containing
suitable values for the (environment) variables
.B
.SM TERM
and
.B
.SM TERMCAP\s0\fR,
respectively, and can be used as follows:
.RS 
.RS
.nf
.ft B
set noglob
set t=(\`tset \-S .\|.\|.\`)
setenv \s-1TERM\s0 $t[1]
setenv \s-1TERMCAP\s0 "$t[2]"
unset t
unset noglob
.ft R
.RE
.RE
.fi
.br
.ne 4
.IP
Since
.B \-s
loads these values, its use is preferred.  If the
.B
.SM SHELL
environment variable does not end with
.BR csh ,
.B \-S
produces the same Bourne shell commands that
.B \-s
does.
.br
.ne 11
.TP
\fB\-m\fR [\fIport\fR-ID[\fIbaudrate\fR]\fB:\fItype\fR] .\|.\|.
Specify (map) a terminal type when connected to a generic port
(such as
.I dialup
or
.IR plugboard )
identified by
.IR port-ID.
The
.I baudrate
argument can be used to
check the baudrate of the port and set the terminal type
accordingly.  The target rate is prefixed
by any combination of the following operators
to specify the conditions under which the mapping is made:
.RS
.RS
.TP
.B >
Greater than
.TP
.B @
Equals or ``at''
.TP
.B <
Less than
.TP
.B !
It is not the case that (negates the above operators)
.TP
.B ?
Prompt for the terminal type.  If no response is given, then
.I type
is selected by
default.
.RE
.RE
.IP
In the following example, the terminal type is set to
.B adm3a
if the port
is a dialup with a speed of greater than 300 or to
.I dw2
if the port is
a dialup at 300 baud or less.
In the third case, the question mark preceding
the terminal type indicates that the user is to verify the
type desired.  A
null
response indicates that the
named type is correct.
Otherwise, the user's response is taken to be the type desired.
.RS
.IP
.ft B
tset \-m 'dialup>300:adm3a' \-m 'dialup:dw2' \-m 'plugboard:?adm3a'
.ft R
.LP
To prevent interpretation as metacharacters, the entire argument to
.B \-m
should be enclosed in single quotes.   When using the
C shell,
exclamation points should be preceded by a backslash (\e).
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
These examples all use the 
.RB ` \- '
option.  A typical use of
.B tset
in a
.B .profile
or
.B .login
will also use the
.B \-e
and
.B \-k
options, and often the
.B \-n
or
.B \-Q
options as well.
These options have been omitted here to keep the examples short.
.LP
To select a 2621, you might put the following sequence of commands in
your
.B .login
file (or
.B .profile
for Bourne shell users).
.RS 10
.nf
.ft B
set noglob
eval \`tset \-s 2621\`
unset noglob
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
If you have an h19 at home which you dial up on, but your office
terminal is hardwired and known in
.BR /etc/ttytab ,
you might use:
.RS 10
.nf
.ft B
set noglob
eval \`tset \-s \-m dialup:h19\`
unset noglob
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
If you have a switch which connects to various ports (making
it impractical to identify which port you may be connected to),
and use various terminals from time to time, you can select from
among those terminals according to the
.I speed
or baud rate.
In the example below,
.B tset
will prompt you for a terminal type if the baud rate
is greater than 1200 (say, 9600 for a terminal connected by an
RS-232 line), and use a Wyse 50 by default.  If the baud rate is
less than or equal to 1200, it will select a 2621.
Note the placement of the question mark, and the quotes
to protect the
.B >
and
.B ?
from interpretation by the shell.
.RS 10
.nf
.ft B
set noglob
eval \`tset \-s \-m 'switch>1200:?wy' \-m 'switch<=1200:2621'\`
unset noglob
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
All of the above entries will fall back on the terminal type
specified in
.B /etc/ttytab
if none of the conditions hold.
The following entry is appropriate if
you always dial up, always at the same baud rate,
on many different kinds of terminals, and the terminal you use
most often is an adm3a.
.RS 10
.nf
.ft B
set noglob
eval \`tset \-s \?adm3a\`
unset noglob
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
If the file
.B /etc/ttytab
is not properly set up and you want
to make the selection based only on the baud rate, you might use
the following:
.RS 10
.nf
.ft B
set noglob
eval \`tset \-s \-m '>1200:wy' 2621\`
unset noglob
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
The following example quietly sets the erase character to
.SM BACKSPACE,
and kill to
.SM CTRL-U.
If the port is switched, it selects a Concept 100 for speeds less than
or equal to 1200, and asks for the terminal type otherwise
(the default in this case is a Wyse 50).  If the port is a
direct dialup, it selects Concept 100 as the terminal type.  If
logging in over the
.SM TCP/IP\s0,
the terminal type selected is a
Datamedia 2500 terminal or emulator.  (Note the backslash
escaping the
.SM NEWLINE
at the end of the first line in the example.)
.IP
.ft B
set noglob
.br
eval \`tset \-e \-k^U \-Q \-s \-m 'switch<=1200:concept100' \-m \e
	'switch:?wy' \-m dialup:concept100 \-m arpanet:dm2500\`
.br
unset noglob
.ft R
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/ttytab
port name to terminal type mapping database
.TP
.B /etc/termcap
terminal capability database
.TP
.B /usr/share/lib/tabset/*
.SM TAB
setting sequences for various terminals.  Pointed to by
.B termcap
entries.
.TP
.B \&.login
.TP
.B \&.profile
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR csh (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR stty (1V),
.BR vi (1),
.BR environ (5V),
.BR termcap (5),
.BR ttytab (5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
Once the terminal's size has been initialized,
further invocations of
.B tset
will not affect it.
To correct this, do the following:
.IP
.B example% stty rows 0 colums 0
.LP
and then run
.B tset
normally.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The
.B tset
command is one of the first commands a user must master
when getting started on a
.SM UNIX
system.
Unfortunately, it is one of the most complex,
largely because of the extra effort the user must go through
to get the environment of the login shell set.
Something needs to be done to make all this simpler, either the
.B login
program should do this stuff, or a default shell alias should be made,
or a way to set the environment of the parent should exist.
.LP
This program cannot intuit personal choices for erase, interrupt
and line kill characters, so it leaves these set to the local system
standards.
.LP
It could well be argued that the shell should
be responsible for ensuring that
the terminal remains in a sane state;
this would eliminate the need for the
.B reset
program.
