.\" @(#)ul.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH UL 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
ul \- do underlining
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ul
[
.B \-i
] [
.B \-t
.I terminal
] [
.IR filename .\|.\|.
]
.IX  "ul command"  ""  "\fLul\fP \(em underline text"
.IX  "underline text"  ""  "underline text \(em \fLul\fP"
.IX  "text processing utilities"  ul  ""  "\fLul\fP \(em underline text"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B ul
reads the named
.IR filename s
(or the standard input if none are given)
and translates occurrences of underscores to the sequence
which indicates underlining for the terminal in use, as specified
by the environment variable
.B
.SM TERM\s0\fR.
.B ul
uses the
.B /etc/termcap
file to determine the appropriate
sequences for underlining.
If the terminal is incapable of underlining,
but is capable of a standout mode then that is used instead.
If the terminal can overstrike, or handles underlining automatically,
.B ul
degenerates to
.BR cat (1V).
If the terminal cannot underline, underlining is ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-t " terminal"
Override the terminal kind specified in the environment.
If the terminal cannot underline, underlining is ignored.
.TP
.B \-i
Indicate underlining by a separate
line containing appropriate dashes
.RB ` \- ';
this is useful when you want to
look at the underlining which is present in an
.BR nroff (1)
output stream on a
.SM CRT\s0-terminal.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/termcap
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cat (1V),
.BR colcrt (1),
.BR man (1),
.BR nroff (1)
.SH BUGS
.B nroff
usually generates a series of backspaces and underlines
intermixed
with the text to indicate underlining.
.B ul
makes attempt to optimize
the backward motion.
