.\" @(#)unifdef.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from 4.3 BSD
.TH UNIFDEF 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
unifdef \- resolve and remove ifdef'ed lines from cpp input
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unifdef
[
.B \-c
.B l
.B t
] [
.BI \-D name
] [
.BI \-U name
] [
.BI \-iD name
] [
.BI \-iU name
] .\|.\|. [
.I filename
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "unifdef command"  ""  "\fLunifdef\fP \(em eliminate \fL#ifdef\fR's from C input"
.IX  "eliminate ifdefs from C input"  ""  "eliminate \fL#ifdef\fR's from C input \(em \fLunifdef\fP"
.IX  "programming tools"  unifdef  ""  "\fLunifdef\fP \(em eliminate \fL#ifdef\fR's from C input"
.LP
.B unifdef
removes
.BR ifdef ed
lines from a file while otherwise leaving the file alone.
It is smart enough to deal with the nested
.BR ifdef s,
comments, single and double quotes of
.B C
syntax, but it does not do any including or interpretation of macros.
Neither does it strip out comments,
though it recognizes and ignores them.
You specify which symbols you want defined with
.B \-D
options, and which you want undefined with
.BI \-U
options.  Lines within those
.BR ifdef s
will be
copied to the output, or removed, as appropriate.
Any
.BR ifdef ,
.BR ifndef ,
.BR else ,
and
.B endif
lines associated with
.I filename
will also be removed.
.LP
.BR ifdef s
involving symbols you do not specify are untouched and copied out
along with their associated
.BR ifdef ,
.BR  else ,
and
.B endif
lines.
.LP
If an
.BI ifdef X
occurs nested inside another
.BI ifdef X\fR,
then the inside
.B ifdef
is treated as if it were an unrecognized symbol.
If the same symbol appears in more than one argument, only the first
occurrence is significant.
.LP
.B unifdef
copies its output to the standard output
and will take its input from the standard input
if no
.I filename
argument is given.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
Complement the normal operation.
Lines that would have been removed or blanked
are retained, and vice versa.
.TP
.B \-l
Replace \*(lqlines removed\*(rq lines with blank lines.
.TP
.B \-t
Plain text option.
.B unifdef
refrains from attempting to recognize
comments and single and double quotes.
.TP
.BI \-iD name
Ignore, but print out, lines associated with the defined symbol
.I filename.
If you use
.BR ifdef s
to delimit non-C
lines, such as comments or code which is
under construction, then you must tell
.B unifdef
which symbols are used for that purpose so that it won't try to parse
for quotes and comments within them.
.TP
.BI \-iU name
Ignore, but print out, lines associated with the undefined symbol
.IR filename .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cpp (1),
.BR diff (1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 10
.B Premature \s-1EOF\s0
Inappropriate
.B else
or
.BR endif .
.LP
Exit status is 0 if output is exact copy of input,
1 if not, 2 if trouble.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Does not know how to deal with
.BR cpp (1)
constructs such as
.IP
.nf
.B #if	defined(X) || defined(Y)
.fi
