.\" @(#)uniq.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH UNIQ 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
uniq \- remove or report adjacent duplicate lines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uniq
[
.B \-cdu
[
.BR + \||\| \-\fIn\fP
]
[
.I inputfile
[
.I outputfile
] ]
.IX  "uniq command"  ""  "\fLuniq\fP \(em remove repeated lines"
.IX  remove "repeated lines \(em \fLuniq\fP"
.IX  delete "repeated lines \(em \fLuniq\fP"
.IX  "sorted file"  "remove repeated lines"  ""  "remove repeated lines \(em \fLuniq\fP"
.IX  "text processing utilities"  uniq  ""  "\fLuniq\fP \(em remove repeated lines"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B uniq
reads the input file comparing adjacent lines.
In the normal case, the second and succeeding
copies of repeated lines are
removed; the remainder is written on the output file.
Note: repeated lines must be adjacent in order to be found; see
.BR sort (1V).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
Supersede
.B \-u
and
.B \-d
and generate an output report in default style
but with each line preceded by a count of the number of times it occurred.
.LP
The normal output of
.B uniq
is the union of the
.B \-u
and
.B \-d
options.
.TP
.B \-d
Write one copy of just the repeated lines.
.TP
.B \-u
Copy only those lines which are
.I not
repeated in the original file.
.LP
The
.I n
arguments specify skipping an initial portion of each line in the comparison:
.TP 8
.BI + n
The first
.IR n
characters are ignored.  Fields are skipped before characters.
.TP
.BI \- n
The first
.IR n
fields together with any blanks before each are ignored.
A field is defined as a string of non-\s-1SPACE\s0,
non-\s-1TAB\s0
characters separated by
.SM SPACE
and
.SM TAB
characters from its neighbors.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR comm (1),
.BR sort (1V)
