.\" @(#)units.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2 6.2 83/09/02
.TH UNITS 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
units \- conversion program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B units
.IX  "units command"  ""  "\fLunits\fP \(em convert units"
.IX  "convert units"  ""  "convert units \(em \fLunits\fP"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B units
converts quantities expressed
in various standard scales to
their equivalents in other scales.
It works interactively in this fashion:
.LP
.nf
.RS
.RB "You have:\ \ " inch
.RB "You want:\ \ " cm
.RS
\(** 2.540000e+00
\(sl 3.937008e\-01
.RE
.fi
.RE
.LP
A quantity is specified as a multiplicative combination of
units optionally preceded by a numeric multiplier.
Powers are indicated by suffixed positive integers,
division by the usual sign:
.LP
.nf
.RS
.RB "You have:\ \ " "15 lbs force/in2"
.RB "You want:\ \ " atm
.RS
\(** 1.020689e+00
\(sl 9.797299e\-01
.RE
.fi
.RE
.LP
.B units
only does multiplicative scale changes.
Thus it can convert Kelvin to Rankine, but not Celsius to
Fahrenheit.
Most familiar units,
abbreviations, and metric prefixes are recognized,
together with a generous leavening of exotica
and a few constants of nature including:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP "\w'water\ \ \ \ 'u"
.B pi
Ratio of circumference to diameter,
.TP
.B c
Speed of light,
.TP
.B e
Charge on an electron,
.TP
.B g
Acceleration of gravity,
.TP
.B force
Same as
.BR g ,
.TP
.B mole
Avogadro's number,
.TP
.B water
Pressure head per unit height of water,
.TP
.B au
Astronomical unit.
.PD
.RE
.B pound
is not recognized as a unit of
mass;
.B lb
is.
.B pound
refers to a British pound.
Compound names are run together (for instance,
.BR lightyear ).
British units that differ from their
.SM U\s+1\&.\s-1S\s0\&.
counterparts are prefixed thus:
.BR brgallon .
Currency is denoted
.BR belgiumfranc ,
.BR britainpound ", .\|.\|."
For a complete list of units, type:
.LP
.RS
.B cat /usr/lib/units
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/units
.PD
.SH BUGS
Do not base your
financial plans on the currency conversions.
