.\" @(#)unix2dos.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH UNIX2DOS 1 "7 October 1990"
.SH NAME
unix2dos \- convert text file from ISO format to DOS format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unix2dos
[
.B \-ascii
]
[
.B \-iso
]
[
.B \-7
]
.I originalfile 
.I convertedfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX unix2dos "" "\fLunix2dos\fR \(em convert text file from ISO format to SunOS DOS format"
.LP
.B unix2dos
converts
.SM ISO
standard characters to the corresponding characters in the
.SM DOS
extended character set.
.LP
This command may be invoked from either
.SM DOS
or SunOS.
However, the filenames must conform to
the conventions of the environment in which the command is invoked.  
.LP
If the original file and the converted file are the same, 
.B unix2dos
will rewrite the original file after converting it.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-ascii
Adds carriage returns and converts end of file characters in SunOS format
text files to conform to
.SM DOS
requirements.
.TP 
.B \-iso
This is the default.  Converts
.SM ISO
standard characters to the corresponding character in the
.SM DOS
extended character set.
.TP 
.B \-7
Convert 8 bit SunOS characters to 7 bit
.SM DOS
characters.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B "File \fIfilename\fP not found, or no read permission
The input file you specified does not
exist, or you do not have read permission (check with the SunOS command
.BR "ls \-l" ).
.TP
.B "Bad output filename \fIfilename\fP, or no write permission
The output file you specified
is either invalid, or you do not have write permission for that
file or the directory that contains it.  Check also that the drive or diskette 
is not write-protected.
.TP
.B "Error while writing to temporary file
An error occurred while converting your file, possibly because 
there is not enough space on the current drive.  Check the amount of
space on the current drive using the
.SM DIR
command.  Also be certain that
the default diskette or drive is write-enabled (not write-protected).
Note that when this error occurs, the original file remains intact.
.TP
.B "Could not rename tmpfile to \fIfilename\fP.
.PD 0
.
.TP
.B "Translated tmpfile name = \fIfilename\fP.
The program could not perform the final step in converting your
file. Your converted file is stored under the name indicated on the
second line of this message.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dos (1),
.BR dos2unix (1)
.sp .5
.I Sun386i Advanced Skills
.br
.I Sun MS-DOS Reference Manual
