.\" @(#)unload.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH UNLOAD 1 "19 February 1988"
.SH NAME
unload, unloadc \- unload Application SunOS or Developer's Toolkit optional clusters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unload
.IR filename .\|.\|.
.LP
.B unloadc
.IR cluster .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Available only on Sun 386i systems running a SunOS 4.0.\fIx\fR
release or earlier.  Not a SunOS 4.1 release feature.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "unload command" "" "\fLunload\fR command"  
.LP
.B unload
unloads the Application Sun\s-1OS\s0 or Developer's Toolkit clusters that
contain the specified file arguments.
.B unloadc
unloads the specified Application Sun\s-1OS\s0 or Developer's Toolkit clusters.
.LP
Without arguments,
.B unload
and
.B unloadc
display a summary of the clusters in the Application Sun\s-1OS\s0 and
Developer's Toolkit, including the load state and size of each cluster.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To unload the cluster that contains the 
.B spell
command:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
example% unload spell
About to unload the spellcheck cluster, confirm (y/n): y
Unloading the spellcheck cluster ...
The spellcheck cluster has been unloaded.
space used by clusters: 5358K bytes
total space remaining: 20962K bytes
example%
.fi
.RE
.LP
To display a summary of the clusters in the Application Sun\s-1OS\s0 and
Developer's Toolkit:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ta \w'    available 'u +\w'advanced_admin   'u +\w'diskette  'u
.nf
.ft B
example% unload
Application Sun\s-1OS\s0 Optional Clusters:
\&    available	cluster	size (bytes)
\&    ---------	-------	----
\&      yes	accounting	265K
\&      no	advanced_admin	501K
\&      .\|.\|.
.sp
Developer's Toolkit Optional Clusters:
\&    available	cluster	size (bytes)
\&    ---------	-------	----
\&      no	base_devel	6907K
\&      .\|.\|.
.sp
space used by clusters: 6021K bytes
total space remaining: 20432K bytes
.ft
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.B /export/cluster/sun386.sunos\fIrelease\fP/appl
where Application Sun\s-1OS\s0 clusters are loaded (or mounted).
.I release
is the current release of the operating system, for example, 4.0.2.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B /export/cluster/sun386.sunos\fIrelease\fP/devel
where Developer's Toolkit clusters are loaded (or mounted).
.I release
is the current release of the operating system, for example, 4.0.2.
.TP
.B /usr/lib/load/*
data files
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cluster (1),
.BR load (1),
.BR toc (5)
.LP
.I Sun386i Setup and Maintenance
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.BI "The file " filename " is not in any of the optional software clusters."
The specified file is not part of the Application Sun\s-1OS\s0 or Developer's
Toolkit.
.TP
.BI "The cluster " cluster " is not loaded."
The specified cluster is not loaded on disk.
.TP
.BI "There is no " cluster " cluster."
The specified cluster is not part of the Application Sun\s-1OS\s0 or Developer's
Toolkit.
.TP
.B "The Application Sun\s-1OS\s0 (and/or) Developer's Toolkit are mounted."
The Application Sun\s-1OS\s0 or Developer's Toolkit or both
are mounted across the network
and can not be loaded or unloaded.
