.\" @(#)ustar.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; new for 4.1
.TH USTAR 1V "6 September 1989"
.SH NAME
ustar \- process tape archives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/5bin/ustar
.B \-c
[
.B bfvw
]
.I device
.I block
.I filename \|.\|.\|.
.br
.B /usr/5bin/ustar
.B \-r
[
.B bvw
]
.I device
.I block
[
.IR filename \|.\|.\|.
]
.br
.B /usr/5bin/ustar
.B \-t
[
.B fv
]
.I device
.br
.B /usr/5bin/ustar
.B \-u
[
.B bvw
]
.I device
.I block
.br
.B /usr/5bin/ustar
.B \-x
[
.B flmovw
]
.I device
[
.IR filename \|.\|.\|.
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
.B ustar
is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.
Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "ustar process" "" "\fLustar\fP \(em process tape archives" ""
.IX tape "process tape archives"
.IX archive "process tape archives"
.IX read "archive files" 
.IX write "archive files" 
.LP
.B ustar
reads and writes archive files which conform to the
.B "Archive/Interchange File Format"
specified in
.IR "IEEE Std. 1003.1-1988" .
.LP
If the files exist, their modes are not changed except as described above.
The owner, group and modification time are restored if possible.
If no
.I filename
argument is given, the entire contents of the archive is extracted.
Note: if several files with the same name are in the archive,
the last one will overwrite all earlier ones.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
Create a new archive;
writing begins at the beginning of the archive,
instead of after the last file.
.TP
.B \-r
Write names files to the end of the archive.
.TP 
.B \-t
List the names of all of the files in the archive.
.TP 
.B \-u
Add named files
to the archive if they are not already there, or if
they have been modified since last written into the archive.
This implies the
.B \-r
option.
.TP 
.B \-x
Extracts named files from the archive.
If a named file matches a directory whose contents had been written onto
the archive, that directory is recursively extracted.
If a named file in the archive does not exist on the system, the file is
create with the same mode as the one in the archive, except that the
set-user-id and get-group-id modes are not set unless the user has
appropriate privileges.
.TP 
.B \-b
Use the next argument on the command line as the blocking factor for
tape records.
The default is 1; the maximum is 20.
This option should only be used with raw magnetic tape archives.
Normally, the block size is determined automatically when reading tapes.
.TP 
.B \-f
Use the next argument on the command line as the name of the archive
instead of the default, which is usually a tape drive.
If
.RB ` \- '
is specified as a filename
.B ustar
writes to the standard output or reads from the standard input, whichever
is appropriate for the options given.
Thus,
.B ustar
can be used as the head or tail of a pipeline.
.TP 
.B \-l
Report if 
.B ustar
cannot resolve all of the links to the files being
archived.
If
.B \-l
is not specified,
no error messages are written to the standard output.
This modifier is only valid with the
.BR \-c ,
.B \-r
and
.BR \-u
options.
.TP 
.B \-m
Do not restore the modification times.
The modification time of the file will be the time of extraction.
This modifier is invalid with the
.B \-t
option.
.TP 
.B \-o
Extracted files take on the user and group identifier of the user
running the program rather than those on the archive.
This modifier is only valid with the
.B \-x
option.
.TP 
.B \-v
Verbose.
Print the name of each file it processes,
preceded by the option letter.
With the
.B \-t
option,
.B \-v
gives more information about the archive entries than just the name.
.TP 
.B \-w
Print the action to be taken,
followed by the name of the file, and then
wait for the user's confirmation.
If a word beginning with
.B y
is given, the action is performed.
Any other input implies no
and the action is not performed.
This modifier is invalid with the
.B \-t
option.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20 
.B /dev/tty
used to prompt the user for information when the
.B \-i 
or
.B \-y
options are specified
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cpio (1),
.BR dd (1),
.BR find (1),
.BR pax (1V),
.BR paxcpio (1V),
.BR cpio (5),
.BR tar (5)
.\".SH COPYRIGHT
.\"Copyright (c) 1989 Mark H. Colburn.  
.\".br
.\"All rights reserved.
.\".LP
.\"Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
.\"provided that the above copyright notice is duplicated in all such 
.\"forms and that any documentation, advertising materials, and other 
.\"materials related to such distribution and use acknowledge that the 
.\"software was developed by Mark H. Colburn and sponsored by The 
.\"USENIX Association. 
.\".LP
.\"THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\"IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\"WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
.nf
Mark H. Colburn
NAPS International
117 Mackubin Street, Suite 1
St. Paul, MN 55102
.fi
.LP
Sponsored by
.B "The USENIX Association"
for public distribution.
