'\" t
.\" @(#)uucp.1c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH UUCP 1C "8 June 1988"
.SH NAME
uucp, uulog, uuname \- system to system copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uucp
[
.B \-cCdfjmr
] [
.BI \-g grade
] [
.BI \-n username
]
.if n .ti +5
[
.BI \-x " debug_level"
]
.\".if t .ti +.5i
.I source-file
\&.\|.\|.
.I destination-file
.LP
.B uulog
[
.B \-x
] [
.BI \-f system
] [
.BI \-s system
] [
.BI \- number
]
.LP
.B uuname
[
.B \-cl
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
These commands are available with the
.I uucp
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "uucp command"  ""  "\fLuucp\fP \(em system to system copy"
.IX  "uulog command"  ""  "\fLuulog\fP \(em UUCP log"
.IX  "uuname command"  ""  "\fLuuname\fP \(em UUCP list of names"
.IX  "system to system copy"  ""  "system to system copy \(em \fLuucp\fP"
.IX  "UUCP log"  ""  "UUCP log \(em \fLuulog\fP"
.IX  communications  uucp  ""  "\fLuucp\fP \(em system to system copy"
.IX  communications  uulog  ""  "\fLuulog\fP \(em UUCP log"
.IX  communications  uuname  ""  "\fLuuname\fP \(em UUCP list of names"
.SS uucp
.LP
.B uucp
copies each
.I source-file
to the named
.IR destination-file .
A filename may be a path name on your machine, or may
have the form
.IP
.IB system-name ! pathname
.LP
where
.I system-name
is taken from a list of system names that
.B uucp
knows about.
The
.I system-name
may also be a list of names such as
.LP
.RS
\fIsystem-name\fB!\fIsystem-name\fB!\fR.\|.\|.\fB!\fIsystem-name\fB!\fIpathname\fR
.RE
.LP
in which case an attempt is made to send the file by
way of the specified route, to the destination.
See
.SM WARNINGS
and
.SM BUGS
below for restrictions.
Care should be taken to ensure that intermediate nodes in the
route are willing to foward information
(see
.SM WARNINGS
below for restrictions).
.LP
The shell metacharacters
.BR ? ,
.BR \(** ,
and
.B [\ ]
appearing in the pathname part will be expanded on the appropriate system.
.LP
Path names may be one of:
.RS
.TP 4
\(bu
a full pathname;
.TP
\(bu
a pathname preceded by
.BI ~ username /\fR;
.I username
is interpreted as a username on the specified system
and is replaced by that user's login directory on that system;
.TP
\(bu
a pathname preceded by
.BI ~/ destination /\fR;
the
.B ~/
is replaced by the
\*(lqpublic
.SM UUCP\s0\*(rq
directory on the remote machine
Note:  this destination will be treated as a file name unless
more than one file is being transferred by this request or
the destination is already a directory.
To ensure that it is a directory, follow the destination with a
.RB ' / '.
For example
.B ~/dan/
as the destination will make the directory
.B /usr/spool/uucppublic/dan
if it does not exist and put the requested file(s) in that directory;
.TP
\(bu
a partial pathname, which is prefixed by the pathname of current directory.
.RE
.LP
If the result is an erroneous pathname for the remote system,
the copy will fail.
If the
.I destination-file
is a directory, the last component of the
.I source-file
name is used.
.LP
.B uucp
preserves execute permissions across the transmission
and gives 0666 read and write permissions (see
.BR chmod (2V)).
.SS uulog
.LP
.B uulog
queries the log file
.BI /var/spool/uucp/.Log/uucico/ system
of 
.B uucp
transactions for system
.IR system ,
or the log file
.BI /var/spool/uucp/.Log/uuxqt/ system
of
.BR uux (1C)
transactions for system
.IR system .
.SS uuname
.LP
.B uuname
lists the
.SM UUCP
names of systems that can be accessed using
.BR uucp .
.br
.ne 8
.SH OPTIONS
.SS uucp
.TP
.B \-c
Use the source file when copying out rather than
copying the file to the spool directory. 
This is the default.
.TP
.B \-C
Make a copy of outgoing files in the
.SM UUCP
spool directory,
rather than copying the source file directly to the target system.
This lets you remove the source file after issuing the
.B uucp
command.
.TP
.B \-d
Make all necessary directories for the file copy. 
This is the default.
.TP
.B \-f
Do not make intermediate directories for the file copy.
.TP
.B \-j
Output the job identification
.SM ASCII
string on the standard output.
This job identification can be used by
.BR uustat (1C)
to obtain the status or terminate a job.
.TP
.B \-m
Send mail to the requester when the copy is complete.
.TP
.B \-r
Do not start
.BR uucico (8C),
just queue the job.
.TP
.BI \-g grade
.I grade
is a single letter or number, from
.B 0
to
.BR 9 ,
.B A
to
.BR Z ,
or
.B a
to
.BR z ;
.B 0
is the highest grade, and
.B z
is the lowest grade.
Lower grades
will cause the job to be transmitted earlier during a particular
conversation.
The default
.I grade
is
.BR n .
By way of comparison,
.BR uux (1C)
defaults to
.BR A ;
mail is usually sent at grade
.BR C .
.TP
.BI \-n username
Notify
.I username
on the remote system (that is, send
.I username
mail) that a file was sent.
.TP
.BI \-x " debug_level"
Produce debugging output on the standard output.
.I debug_level
is a number between 0 and 9; higher numbers give more detailed information.
5, 7, and 9 are good numbers to try;
they give increasing amounts of detail.
.SS uulog 
.TP
.B \-x
Look in the
.BR uuxqt (8C)
log file for the given system.
.TP
.BI \-f system
Does a
.RB ` "tail \-f" '
of the file transfer log for
.IR system .
You must hit
.SM BREAK
to exit this function.
.TP
.BI \-s system
Print information about work involving system
.IR system .
.TP
.BI \- number
Indicate that a
.B tail
command of
.I number
lines should be executed.
.SS uuname 
.TP
.B \-c
Display the names of systems known to
.BR cu (1C).
The two lists are the same, unless your machine is using
different
.B Systems
files for
.B cu
and
.BR uucp .
See the
.B Sysfiles
file.
.TP
.B \-l
Display the local system name.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/spool/uucp
spool directories
.TP
.B /var/spool/uucppublic
public directory for receiving and sending
.TP
.B /etc/uucp/\(**
other data files
.TP
.B /usr/lib/uucp/\(**
other program files
.PD
.br
.ne 5
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mail (1),
.BR uustat (1C),
.BR uux (1C),
.BR chmod (2V),
.BR uucico (8C),
.BR uuxqt (8C)
.LP
.TX ADMIN
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
The domain of remotely accessible files can
(and for obvious security reasons, usually should)
be severely restricted.
You will very likely not be able to fetch files
by path name;
ask a responsible person on the remote system to
send them to you.
For the same reasons you will probably not be able
to send files to arbitrary path names.
As distributed, the remotely accessible files are
those whose names begin
.B /usr/spool/uucppublic
(equivalent to
.BR ~/ ).
.LP
All files received by
.B uucp
will be owned by the user
.SM ID
.BR uucp .
.LP
The
.B \-m
option will only work sending files or receiving
a single file.
Receiving multiple files specified by special shell
characters
.BR ? ,
.BR \(** ,
and
.B [\ ]
will not activate the
.B \-m
option.
.LP
The forwarding of files through other systems may not be compatible
with other versions of
.SM UUCP\s0.
If forwarding is used, all
systems in the route must have the same version of
.SM UUCP\s0.
.LP
When invoking
.B uucp
from
.BR csh (1),
the
.B !
character must be prefixed by the
.B \e
escape to inhibit
.BR csh 's
history mechanism. Quotes are not sufficient.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Protected files and files that are in protected directories that
are owned by the requestor can be sent by
.BR uucp .
However, if the requestor is root, and the directory is not searchable
by \*(lqother\*(rq or the file is not readable by
\*(lqother\*(rq, the request will fail.
