.\" @(#)uusend.1c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH UUSEND 1C "5 July 1988"
.SH NAME
uusend \- send a file to a remote host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uusend
[
.B \-fr
]
[
.B \-m
.I mode
]
.I source-file
.IB system-name1 ! system-name2 !\c
.RB \&.\|.\|. !\c
.I destination-file
.IX  "uusend command"  ""  "\fLuusend\fP \(em send file to remote host"
.IX  send "file to remote host \(em \fLuusend\fP"
.IX  "remote host"  "send file to"  ""  "send file to \(em \fLuusend\fP"
.IX  communications  uusend  ""  "\fLuusend\fP \(em send file to remote host"
.IX  file  "send to remote host"  ""  "send to remote host \(em \fLuusend\fP"
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I uucp
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B uusend
sends the file,
.IR source-file ,
to a given location,
.IR destination-file ,
on a remote system.  The system need
not be directly connected to the local system, but a chain of
.BR uucp (1C)
links must connect the two systems.
If
.I destination-file
is a directory, the last component of the
.I source-file
name is used.
.LP
The source file can be
.RB ` \- ',
meaning to use the standard input. 
These options are primarily intended for internal use of
.BR uusend .
.LP
The destination file can include the
.BI ~ username
or
.B ~/
syntax.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
Do not make intermediate directories for sending the file.
.TP
.B \-r
Do not start
.BR uucico ,
just queue the job.
.TP
.BI \-m " mode"
Take the mode of the file on the remote end
from the octal number specified as
.IR mode .
The mode of the input file is used if the
.B \-m
option is not specified.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR uuencode (1C),
.BR uux (1C)
.SH BUGS
This command should not exist, since
.B uucp
should handle it.
.LP
All systems along the line must have the
.B uusend
command available and allow remote execution of it.
.LP
Some
.SM UUCP
systems have a bug where binary files cannot be the
input to a
.B uux
command.
If this bug exists in any system along the line,
the file will show up severely corrupted.
