.\" @(#)uustat.1c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH UUSTAT 1C "8 June 1988"
.SH NAME
uustat \- UUCP status inquiry and job control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uustat
.BR \-a \||\c
.BR \-m \||\c
.BR \-p \||\c
.BR \-q \||\c
.B \-k\c
.IR jobid \||\c
.B \-r\c
.I jobid
.LP
.B uustat
.RB "[ " \-s\c
.IR system " ]"
.RB "[ " \-u\c
.IR user " ]"
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I uucp
software  installation  option.   Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "uustat command" "" "\fLuustat\fR command"  
.LP
.B uustat
displays the status of, or cancels, previously specified 
.BR uucp (1C)
commands.
It also reports the status of
.B uucp
connections to other systems.
When no options are given,
.B uustat
displays the status of all
.B uucp
requests issued by the current user.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Only one of the following options can be specified at a time:
.TP
.B \-a
Output all jobs in queue.
.TP
.B \-m
Report the status of accessibility of all machines.
.TP
.B \-p
Execute a
.B ps
for all the
.SM PID\s0s
listed in the lock files.
.TP
.B \-q
List the jobs queued for each machine.
If a status file exists for the machine, its date, time and
status information are reported.
In addition, if a number appears in parentheses next to the number of
.B C.
or
.B X.
files, it is the age in days of the oldest
.BR C. / X.
file for that system.
The
.B Retry
field represents the number of hours until the next possible call.
The
.B Count
is the number of failure attempts.
For systems with a moderate number of outstanding jobs, this
could take 30 seconds or more to execute.
An example of the output from
.B \-q
is:
.RS
.RS
.sp .5v
.nf
.ft B
.if t .ta .75i 1.15i 2.0i
.if n .ta 8n +4n +12n
eagle	3C	04/07\-11:07	\s-1NO DEVICES AVAILABLE\s0
mh3bs3	2C	07/07\-10:42	\s-1SUCCESSFUL\s0
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.RE
.IP
This indicates the number of command files that are waiting for each system.
Each command file may have zero or more files to be sent (zero means to call
the system and see if work is to be done).
The date and time refer to the previous interaction
with the system followed by the status of the interaction.
.TP
.BI \-k jobid
Kill the
.SM UUCP
request with job identification of
.IR jobid .
You must either own the job to be killed, or be the super-user.
.TP
.BI \-r jobid
Rejuvenate
.IR jobid .
The files associated with
.I jobid
are touched so that 
their modification time is set to the current time.
This prevents the cleanup daemon
from deleting the job until the jobs modification
time reaches the next limit imposed by the daemon.
.LP
The following  options  can  be  specified separately or
together:
.TP
.BI \-s system
Report the status of all
.SM UUCP
requests for remote system
.IR system .
.TP
.BI \-u user
Report the status of all
.SM UUCP
requests issued by
.IR user .
.br
.ne 6
.IP
Output for both the
.B \-s
and
.B \-u
options has the following format:
.RS
.RS
.sp .5v
.ft B
.nf
.if t .ta .75i 1.15i 2.0i 2.5i 2.9i 3.2i 3.5i
.if n .ta 12n +15n +8n +8n +8n +8n +8n +8n
eaglen0000	4/07\-11:01:03	(\s-1POLL\s0)
eagleN1bd7	4/07\-11:07	S	eagle	dan	522 /usr/dan/A
eagleC1bd8	4/07\-11:07	S	eagle	dan	59 D.3b2al2ce4924
\0	4/07\-11:07	S	eagle	dan	rmail mike
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.RE
.IP
The first field is the job
.SM ID
of the job.
This is followed by the date and time.
The next field is either an
.B S
or
.B R
depending on whether the job is to
send or request a file.
This is followed by the user
.SM ID
of the user who queued the job.
The next field contains the size of the file,
or in the case of a remote execution request,
the name of the command.
When the size appears in this field,
the file name is also given.
This can either be the name given by the user, or an
internal name created for data files associated with remote executions
.RB ( rmail
in this example).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/spool/uucp/*
.SM UUCP
spool directories
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR uucp (1C)
