.\" @(#)uuto.1c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH UUTO 1C "26 May 1988"
.SH NAME
uuto, uupick \- public system-to-system file copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uuto
[
.B \-mp
]
.I source-file
\&.\|.\|.
.I destination
.LP
.B uupick
[
.B \-s
.I system
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I uucp
software  installation  option.   Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "uuto command" "" "\fLuuto\fR command"  
.IX "uupick command" "" "\fLuupick\fR command"  
.SS uuto
.LP
.B uuto
sends
.I source-files
to
.IR destination .
.B uuto
uses the
.BR uucp (1C)
facility to send files,
while it allows the local system to control the file access.
A source-file name is a path name on your machine.
Destination has the form:
.IP
.IB system-name ! username
.LP
where
.I system-name
is taken from a list of system names that
.B uucp
knows about (see
.BR uucp (1C)).
.I username
is the username
of someone on the specified system.
.LP
The files (or sub-trees if directories are specified)
are sent to the \*(lqpublic
.SM UUCP\s0\*(rq
directory on the remote machine
.IR system-name .
Normally, this directory is
.BR /usr/spool/uucppublic .
Specifically the files are sent to
.IP
.BI "\s-1PUBDIR\s0/receive/" username / mysystem / file
.LP
where
.SB PUBDIR
is the \*(lqpublic
.SM UUCP\s0\*(rq
directory on
.IR system-name ,
.I mysystem
is the system from which the files are sent, and
.I file
is the file being sent.
.LP
The destined recipient is notified by
.BR mail (1)
of the arrival of files.
.SS uupick
.LP
.B uupick
accepts or rejects the files transmitted to the user.
Specifically,
.B uupick
searches the \*(lqpublic
.SM UUCP\s0\*(rq
directory on the local machine
for files destined for the user.
For each entry (file or directory) found,
the following message is printed on the standard output:
.RS
.BI from " system" ": \fR[\fPfile" " file-name\fR] [" " dir " dirname\fR]\fB\|?
.RE
.LP
.B uupick
then reads a line from the standard input to determine the
disposition of the file:
.TP 16
.SM <NEWLINE>
Go on to next entry.
.TP
.B d
Delete the entry.
.TP
.BR m " [ \fIdir\fP ]"
Move the entry to named directory
.IR dir .
If
.I dir
is not specified as a complete path name (in which
.SB $HOME
is legitimate), a destination relative to the current directory is
assumed. 
If no destination is given, the default is the current
directory.
.TP
.BR a " [ \fIdir\fP ]"
Same as
.B m
except moving all the files sent from
.IR system .
.TP
.B p
Print the content of the file.
.TP
.B q
Stop.
.TP
.SM EOT (CTRL-D)
Same as
.BR q .
.TP
.BI ! command
Escape to the shell to do
.IR command .
.TP
.B *
Print a command summary.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS uuto
.TP
.B \-m
Send mail to the sender when the copy is complete.
.TP
.B \-p
Copy the source file into the spool directory before transmission.
.SS uupick
.TP
.BI \-s " system"
Search only the \*(lqpublic
.SM UUCP\s0\*(rq
directory on the local machine
for files sent from
.IR system .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/spool/uucppublic
public
.SM UUCP
directory
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mail (1),
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR uustat (1C),
.BR uux (1C),
.BR uucleanup (8C)
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
In order to send files that begin with a dot (such as,
.BR .profile )
the files must by qualified with a dot.
For example:
.BR .profile ,
.BR .prof* ,
and
.B .profil?
are correct, whereas
.B *prof*
and
.B ?profile
are incorrect.
