.\" @(#)uux.1c 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R3
.TH UUX 1C "8 June 1988"
.SH NAME
uux \- remote system command execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uux
[
.B \-
] [
.B \-bcCjnprz
] [
.BI \-a name
] [
.BI \-g grade
]
.if n .ti +5
[
.BI \-x " debug_level"
]
.I command-string
.IX  "uux command"  ""  "\fLuux\fP \(em system to system command execution"
.IX  "system to system command execution"  ""  "system to system command execution \(em \fLuux\fP"
.IX  communications  uux  ""  "\fLuux\fP \(em system to system command execution"
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I uucp
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B uux
will gather 0 or more files from various systems,
execute a command on a specified system
and send the standard output to a file on a specified
system.
.LP
For security reasons, most installations
limit the list of
commands executable on behalf of an incoming request from
.BR uux ,
permitting only the receipt of mail (see
.BR mail (1)).
Remote execution permissions are defined in
.BR /etc/uucp/Permissions .
.LP
The
.I command-string
is made up of one or more arguments that look
like a shell command line,
except that the command and file names
may be prefixed by
.RI ` "system-name\fB!\fP" '.
A null
.I system-name
is interpreted as the local system.
.LP
Path names may be one of:
.RS
.TP 4
\(bu
a full pathname;
.TP
\(bu
a pathname preceded by
.BI ~ username /\fR;
.I username
is interpreted as a username on the specified system
and is replaced by that user's login directory on that system;
.TP
\(bu
a pathname preceded by
.BI ~/ destination /\fR;
the
.B ~/
is replaced by the \*(lqpublic \s-1UUCP\s0\*(rq
directory on the remote machine
Note: this destination will be treated as a file name unless
more than one file is being transferred by this request or
the destination is already a directory.
To ensure that it is a directory, follow the destination with a
.RB ' / '.
For example
.B ~/dan/
as the destination will make the directory
.B /usr/spool/uucppublic/dan
if it does not exist and put the requested file(s) in that directory;
.TP
\(bu
a partial pathname, which is prefixed by the pathname of current directory.
.RE
.LP
The
.RB ` \- '
option sends the standard input to the
.B uux
command as the standard input to the
.IR command-string .
.LP
Any special shell characters such as
.BR <\|> ,
.BR ; ,
and
.B |
should be quoted either by quoting the entire
.IR command-string ,
or by quoting the special
characters as individual arguments.
.LP
.B uux
will attempt to get all files to the execution system.
For files that are output files, the file name must be escaped using
parentheses.
For example, the command
.IP
.ft B
uux a!cut \-f1 b!/usr/file \\(c!/usr/file\\)
.ft R
.LP
gets
.B /usr/file
from system 
.B b
and sends it to system 
.BR a ,
performs a
.B cut
command on that file and sends the result of the 
.B cut
command to system
.BR c .
.LP
.B uux
will notify you if the requested command on the remote
system was disallowed, or if the command fails (that is,
returns a non-zero exit status).
This notification can be turned off by the
.B \-n
option.
The response comes by remote mail from the remote machine.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-b
Return whatever standard input was provided to the
.B uux
command if the job fails (that is, returns a non-zero exit status).
.TP
.BI \-c
Do not copy local file to the spool directory for transfer to the remote
machine.  This is the default.
.TP
.BI \-C
Force the copy of local files to the spool directory for transfer.
.TP
.BI \-j
Output the jobid
.SM ASCII
string on the standard output which is the job identification.
This job identification can be used by
.BR uustat (1C)
to obtain the status or terminate a job.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not return any indication by
.BR mail (1)
of success or failure of the job.
.TP
.B \-p
Same as
.RB ` \- ':
the standard input to
.B uux
is made the standard input to the
.IR command-string .
.TP
.B \-r
Do not start
.BR uucico (8C),
just queue the job.
.TP
.B \-z
Return an indication by
.B mail
even if the job succeeds (that is, returns a zero exit status).
.TP
.BI \-a name
Use
.I name
as the user identification replacing the initiator user
.SM ID\s0.
Notification will be returned to the user.
.TP
.BI \-g grade
.I grade
is a single letter or number, from
.B 0
to
.BR 9 ,
.B A
to
.BR Z ,
or
.B a
to
.BR z ;
.B 0
is the highest grade, and
.B z
is the lowest grade.
Lower grades will transmit the job
earlier during a particular conversation. 
The default
.I grade
is
.BR A .
.TP
.BI \-x " debug_level"
Produce debugging output on the standard output.
.I debug_level
is a number between 0 and 9; higher numbers give more detailed information.
5, 7, and 9 are good numbers to try;
they give increasing amounts of detail.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
The command
.IP
.ft B
uux "!diff usg!/usr/dan/file1 pwba!/a4/dan/file2 > !~/dan/file.diff"
.ft R
.LP
will get the
.B file1
and
.B file2
files from the
.B usg
and
.B pwba
machines, execute a
.BR diff (1)
command and put the results in
.B file.diff
in the local
.B \s-1PUBDIR\s0/dan
directory.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /var/spool/uucp
spool directories
.TP
.B /etc/uucp/Permissions
remote execution permissions
.TP
.B /etc/uucp/\(**
other data
.TP
.B /usr/lib/uucp/\(**
other programs
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mail (1),
.BR uucp (1C),
.BR uustat (1C),
.BR uucico (8C)
.LP
.TX ADMIN
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
Only the first command of a shell pipeline may
have a
.RI ` "system-name\fB!\fP" '.
All other commands are executed on the system of the first
command.
.LP
The use of the shell metacharacter
.B \(**
will probably not do what you want it to do.
.LP
The shell tokens
.B <<
and
.B >>
are not implemented.
.br
.ne 10
.LP
The execution of commands on remote systems takes place in an
execution directory known to the
.SM UUCP
system.
All files required for the execution will be put into this
directory unless they already reside on that machine.
Therefore, the simple file name (without path or machine
reference) must be unique within the
.B uux
request.
The following command will
.SM NOT
work:
.IP
.ft B
uux "a!diff b!/usr/dan/xyz c!/usr/dan/xyz > !xyz.diff"
.ft R
.LP
but the command
.IP
.ft B
uux "a!diff a!/usr/dan/xyz c!/usr/dan/xyz > !xyz.diff"
.ft R
.LP
will work
(if
.B diff
is a permitted command).
.LP
When invoking
.B uux
from
.BR csh (1),
the
.B !
character must be prefixed by the
.B \e
escape to inhibit
.BR csh 's
history mechanism. Quotes are not sufficient.
.br
.ne 6
.SH BUGS
.LP
Protected files and files that are in protected directories that are owned
by the requestor can be sent in commands using
.BR uux .
However, if the requestor is root, and the directory is not searchable
by \*(lqother\*(rq, the request will fail.
