.\" @(#)vacation.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.hw precedence
.TH VACATION 1 "25 November 1987"
.SH NAME
vacation \- reply to mail automatically
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vacation
[
.B \-I
]
.br
.B vacation
[
.B \-j
]
[
.BI \-a " alias"
]
[
.BI \-t N
]
.I username
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX vacation "" "\fLvacation\fR \(em automatic mail replies"
.LP
.B vacation
automatically replies to incoming mail.  The reply is
contained in the file
.BR .vacation.msg
in your home directory.  
.\"(or the file
.\".B /usr/lib/vacation.def
.\"by default).
The
.B vacation
program run interactively will create a 
.BR .vacation.msg
file for you (which you may edit).  
Type 
.B
vacation
with no arguments.  (See
.B
USAGE 
below.)
.LP
For example, the message created by
.B
vacation
is:
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
.ft B
Subject: away from my mail
From:  smith (via the vacation program)
I will not be reading my mail for a while.
Your mail regarding "$\s-1SUBJECT\s0" will be read when I return
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
The
.BR .vacation.msg
file should include a header with at least a
.RB ` Subject: '
line (it should not contain a
.RB ` To: '
line and need not contain a
.RB ` From: '
line, since these are generated automatically).
.LP
If the string
.SB $SUBJECT
appears in the
.B \&.vacation.msg
file, it is replaced with the subject of the original message when the
reply is sent.  
.LP
No message is sent if the
.RB ` To: '
or the
.RB ` Cc: '
line does not list the user to whom the original message was sent or
one of a number of aliases for them,
if the initial
.B From
line includes the string
.BR \-\s-1REQUEST\s0@ ,
or if a
.RB ` "Precedence: bulk" '
or
.RB ` "Precedence: junk" '
line is included in the header.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-I
Initialize the
.B \&.vacation.pag
and
.B \&.vacation.dir
files and start
.BR vacation .
.LP
If the
.B \-I
flag is not specified, and a
.I user
argument is given,
.B vacation
reads the first line from the standard input
(for a
.RB ` From: '
line, no colon).
If absent, it produces an error message.  The following options may be
specified:
.TP
.BI \-a " alias"
Indicate that
.I alias
is one of the valid aliases for the user running
.BR vacation ,
so that mail addressed to that alias generates a reply.
.TP
.B \-j
Do not check whether the recipient appears in the
.RB ` To: '
or the
.RB ` Cc: '
line.
.TP
.BI \-t N
Change the interval between repeat replies to the same sender.
The default is 1 week.
A trailing
.BR s ,
.BR m ,
.BR h ,
.BR d ,
or
.B w
scales
.I N
to seconds, minutes, hours, days, or weeks respectively.
.SH USAGE
.LP
To start
.BR vacation ,
create a
.B \&.forward
file in your home directory containing a line of the form:
.IP
\fB\e\fIusername\fB, "|/usr/ucb/vacation \fIusername\fB"\fR
.LP
where
.I username
is your login name.
.LP
Then type in the command:
.IP
.B vacation \-I
.LP
To stop
.BR vacation ,
remove the
.B \&.forward
file, or move it to a new name.
.br
.ne 6
.LP
If
.B vacation
is run with no arguments, it will permit you to interactively turn
.B vacation
on or off.  It will create a
.B \&.vacation.msg
file for you, or edit an existing one, using the editor specified by the
.SB VISUAL
or
.SB EDITOR
environment variable, or
.BR vi (1)
if neither of those environment variables are set.  If a
.B \&.forward
file is present in your home directory, it will ask whether you want
to remove it and turn off
.BR vacation .
If it is not present in your home directory, it creates
it for you, and automatically performs a
.RB ` "vacation \-I" '
function, turning on
.BR vacation .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B .forward
.\".TP
.\".B /usr/lib/vacation.def
.TP
.B $\s-1HOME\s0/.vacation.msg
.PD
.LP
A list of senders is kept in the files
.B \&.vacation.pag
and
.B \&.vacation.dir
in your home directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vi (1),
.BR sendmail (8)
