.\" @(#)vfontinfo.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH VFONTINFO 1 "19 October 1988"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
vfontinfo \- inspect and print out information about fonts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/vfontinfo
[
.B \-mvz
]
.I fontname
[
.I characters
]
.IX  "vfontinfo command"  ""  "\fLvfontinfo\fP \(em examine font files"
.IX  "document production"  vfontinfo  ""  "\fLvfontinfo\fP \(em examine font files"
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I Versatec
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B vfontinfo
allows you to examine a font in the
.SM UNIX
system format.  It prints out
all the information in the font header and information about every
non-null (width > 0) glyph.
This can be used to make sure the font
is consistent with the format.
.LP
The
.I fontname
argument is the name of the font you wish to inspect.
It writes to the standard output.
If it cannot find the file in your working directory, it looks in
.B /usr/lib/vfont
(the place most of the fonts are kept).
.LP
The
.IR characters ,
if given, specify certain characters to show.
If omitted, the entire font is shown.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-m
Display header.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose.  Display bits of the glyph using commas, periods, and pipe
.RB (` | ')
symbols.
.TP
.B \-z
Zoom.  Display bits of the glyph as an array of M and
.SM SPACE
characters.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/vfont
.TP
.B /usr/lib/vpd
Versatec daemon
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vswap (1),
.BR vwidth (1),
.BR vfont (5)
