.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)vgrind.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 6.2 5/5/86
.\"
.TH VGRIND 1 "8 June 1988"
.SH NAME
vgrind \- grind nice program listings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vgrind
[
.B \-fntwWx 
]
[
.BI \-d "\ defs-file"
]
[
.BI \-h "\ header"
]
[
.BI \-l language
]
[
.BI \-s n
]
[
.BI \-o pagelist
]
[
.BI \-P printer
]
.br
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.BI \-T output-device
]
.IR filename .\|.\|.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I Text
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "code formatter" "\fLvgrind\fR \(em \fLtroff\fR preprocessor for listings"
.IX  "vgrind command"  ""  "\fLvgrind\fP \(em make formatted listings"
.IX  "programming languages"  vgrind  ""  "\fLvgrind\fP \(em make formatted listings"
.IX  "C programming language"  vgrind  ""  "\fLvgrind\fP \(em make formatted listings"
.IX  "pretty printer"  vgrind  ""  "\fLvgrind\fP \(em make formatted listings"
.LP
.B vgrind
formats the program sources named by the
.I filename
arguments in a nice style using
.BR troff (1).
Comments are placed in italics, keywords in bold face,
and as each function is encountered
its name is listed on the page margin.
.LP
.B vgrind
runs in two basic modes, filter mode or regular mode.  In filter mode
.B vgrind
acts as a filter in a manner similar to
.BR tbl (1).
The standard input is passed directly to the standard output except for
lines bracketed by the
.BR troff -like
macros:
.RS
.TP
.B \&.vS
starts processing
.TP
.B \&.vE
ends processing
.RE
.LP
These lines are formatted as described above.
The output from this filter can be passed to
.B troff
for output. 
There need be no particular ordering with
.BR eqn (1)
or
.BR tbl .
.LP
In regular mode
.B vgrind
accepts input
.IR filename s,
processes them, and passes them to
.B troff
for output.
If no
.I filename
is given, or if the
.RB ` \- '
argument is given,
.B vgrind
reads from the standard input (default if
.B \-f
is specified).
.LP
In both modes
.B vgrind
passes any lines beginning with a decimal point without conversion.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Note: the syntax of options with arguments is important. 
Some require a
.SM SPACE
between the option name and the argument,
while those that do not have a
.SM SPACE
below will not tolerate one.
.TP
.B \-f
Force filter mode.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not make keywords boldface.
.TP
.B \-x
Output the index file in a \*(lqpretty\*(rq format.  The index file itself
is produced whenever
.B vgrind
is run with a file called
.B index
present in the current directory.
The index of function definitions can then be run off by giving
.B vgrind
the
.B \-x
option and the file
.B index
as argument.
.TP
.B \-w
Consider
.SM TAB
characters
to be spaced four columns apart instead of the usual eight.
.TP
.BI \-d "\ defs-file"
Specify an alternate language definitions file (default is
.BR /usr/lib/vgrindefs ).
.TP
.BI \-h "\ header"
Specify a header to appear in the center of every output page.
.TP
.BI \-l language
Specify the language to use.
Among the languages currently known are:
Bourne shell
.RB ( \-lsh ),
C
.RB ( \-lc ,
the default), C shell
.RB ( \-lcsh ),
emacs
.SM ML\s0isp,
.RB ( \-lml ),
.SM FORTRAN
.RB ( \-lf),
Icon
.RB ( \-lI ),
.SM ISP
.RB ( \-i ),
.SM LDL
.RB ( \-l\s-1LDL\s0 ),
Model
.RB ( \-lm ),
Pascal
.RB ( \-lp ),
and
.SM RATFOR
.RB ( \-lr ).
.TP
.BI \-s n
Specify a point size to use on output (exactly
the same as the argument of a
.B troff
.B .ps
point size request).
.LP
.B vgrind
passes the following options to the formatter specified by the
.SB TROFF
environment variable, see
.SM ENVIRONMENT
below.
.TP
.B \-t
Similar to the same option in
.BR troff ;
that is, formatted text goes to the standard output.
.TP
.BI \-o pagelist
Print only those pages whose page numbers appear in the comma-separated
.I pagelist
of numbers and ranges. 
A range
.I N\-M
means pages
.I N
through
.IR M ;
an initial
.I \-N
means from the beginning to page
.IR N ;
and a final
.I N\-
means from
.I N
to the end.
.TP
.BI \-P printer
Send output to the named
.IR printer .
.TP
.BI \-T output-device
Format output for the specified
.IR output-device .
.TP
.B \-W
Force output to the (wide) Versatec printer
rather than the (narrow) Varian.
.BR vtroff (1)
only.
.br
.ne 5
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
In regular mode
.B vgrind
feeds its intermediate output to the text formatter
given by the value of the
.SB TROFF
environment variable, or to
.B troff
if this variable is not defined in the environment.
This mechanism allows for local variations in
.BR troff 's
name.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
.B index
file where source for index is created
.TP
.B /usr/lib/vgrindefs
language descriptions
.TP
.B /usr/lib/vfontedpr
preprocessor
.ne 2
.TP
.B /usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.vgrind
macro package
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\".BR ctags (1),
.\".BR eqn (1),
.\".BR tbl (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR vtroff (1),
.BR vgrindefs (5)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B vgrind
assumes that a certain programming style is followed:
.TP 10
C
Function names can be preceded on a line only by
.SM SPACE\s0,
.SM TAB\s0,
or an asterisk.
The parenthesized arguments must also be on the same line.
.TP
.SM FORTRAN
Function names need to appear on the same line as the keywords
.I function
or
.IR subroutine .
.TP
.SM ML\s0isp
Function names should not appear on the same line
as the preceding
.IR defun .
.TP
Model
Function names need to appear on the same line as the keywords
.IR "is beginproc" .
.TP
Pascal
Function names need to appear on the same line as the keywords
.I function
or
.IR procedure .
.LP
If these conventions are not followed,
the indexing and marginal function
name comment mechanisms will fail.
.LP
More generally, arbitrary formatting styles
for programs mostly look bad.
The use of
.SM SPACE
characters to align source code
fails miserably; if you plan to
.B vgrind
your program you should use
.SM TAB
characters.
This is somewhat inevitable since the fonts
.B vgrind
uses are variable width.
.LP
The mechanism of
.BR ctags (1)
in recognizing functions should be used here.
.LP
The
.B \-w
option is a crock,
but there is no other way to achieve the desired effect.
.br
.ne 5
.LP
The macros defined in
.B tmac.vgrind
do not coexist gracefully with those of other macro packages,
making filter mode difficult to use effectively.
.LP
.B vgrind
does not process certain special characters in
.BR csh (1)
scripts correctly.
