.\" @(#)vi.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH VI 1 "2 October 1989"
.SH NAME
vi, view, vedit \- visual display editor based on ex(1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vi
[
.B \-ClLRVx
]
[
.BI \-c " command"
]
[
.BI \-r " filename"
]
[
.BI \-t " tag"
]
[
.BI \-w nnn
]
[
.BI + command
]
.IR filename .\|.\|.
.LP
.BR view .\|.\|.
.LP
.BR vedit .\|.\|.
.IX  "vi command"  ""  "\fLvi\fP \(em visual editor"
.IX  "screen-oriented editor"  ""  "screen-oriented editor \(em \fLvi\fP"
.IX  "display editor"  ""  "display editor \(em \fLvi\fP"
.IX  "visual editor"  ""  "visual editor \(em \fLvi\fP"
.IX  "text editing"  vi  ""  "\fLvi\fP \(em visual editor"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B vi
(visual) is a display oriented text editor based on
.BR ex (1).
.B ex
and
.B vi
are, in fact, the same text editor; it is
possible to get to the command mode of
.B ex
from within
.B vi
and vice-versa.
.LP
.B view
runs
.B vi
with the
.B readonly
flag set.
With
.BR view ,
you can browse through files interactively without making any changes.
.LP
.B vedit
runs
.B vi 
with the
.B report
flag set to 1,
the
.B showmode
and
.B novice
flags set,
and the
.B magic
flag turned off.
These default settings are intended to make
easier for beginners to learn
.BR vi .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B \-C
Encryption option; the same as the 
.B \-x
option, except that all input text is assumed to have already been 
encrypted.
This guarantees decryption in the cases where the 
.B \-x
option incorrectly determines that the input file is not already encrypted
(this is extremely rare, and will only occur in conjunction with the use
of files containing non-ASCII text).
.TP
.B \-l
Set up for editing
.SM LISP
programs.
.TP
.B \-L
List the names of all files saved as the result of an editor or system crash.
.TP
.B \-R
Edit files in read only state.  This has the same effect as the
.B view
command.
.TP 
.B \-V
Verbose. Any non-tty input will be echoed on standard error.
.TP
.B \-x
Prompt for a key to be used in encrypting the file being edited. 
When used in conjunction with a pre-existing file,
.I ex
will make an educated guess to determine whether or not the input text file is already encrypted.
.TP
.BI \-c " command"
Start the editing session by executing the editor command
.IR command .
If 
.I command
contains spaces, it must be surrounded by double quotess, see
.SM EXAMPLES
below.
.TP
.BI \-r " filename"
Recover the named files after a crash.
.TP
.BI \-t " tag"
Edit the file containing
.IR tag .
There must be a tags database in the directory, built by
.BR ctags (1),
that contains a reference to
.IR tag .
.TP
.BI + command
Start the editing session by executing
.IR command .
This is identical to the
.B \-c
option.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
The editor recognizes the environment variable
.SB EXINIT
as a command (or list of commands separated by
.B |
characters) to run when it starts up.  If this variable is
undefined, the editor checks for startup commands in the file
.B ~/.exrc
file, which you must own.  However, if there is a
.B \&.exrc
owned by you in the current directory, the editor takes its
startup commands from this file \(em overriding both the
file in your home directory and the environment variable.
.br
.ne 8
.LP
The environment variables
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.B \s-1LC\s0_default
control the character classification
throughout
.BR vi .
On entry to
.BR vi ,
these environment variables are checked in the
following order:
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.BR \s-1LC\s0_default.
When a valid value is found,
remaining environment variables for character classification
are ignored.
For example, a new setting for
.B \s-1LANG\s0
does not override the current valid character
classification rules of
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 .
When none of the values is valid,
the shell character
classification defaults to the 
.SM POSIX.1 \*(lqC\*(rq
locale.
In the \*(lqC\*(rq locale, all 8-bit
characters are escaped into an octal representation.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following command:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
example%  vi \-c\ ":r test" tested
.ft R
.RE
.LP
will read in the file
.B test 
at the end of the 
.B tested
file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ctags (1),
.BR ex (1)
.LP
.TX TEXT
.br
.TX GSBG
.SH BUGS
.LP
Software
.SM TAB
characters using
.SM CTRL-T
work only immediately after the
.BR autoindent .
.LP
.SM SHIFT\s0-left
and
.SM SHIFT\s0-right
on intelligent terminals do not make use of
insert and delete character operations in the terminal.
.LP
The
.B wrapmargin
option can be fooled since it looks at output columns when blanks are
typed.  When insert mode pushes an existing word through the margin and onto 
the next line without a break, the line will not be broken.
.LP
Insert/delete within a line can be slow if
.SM TAB
characters are present on intelligent
terminals, since the terminals need help in doing this correctly.
.LP
Saving text on deletes in the named buffers is somewhat inefficient.
.LP
The
.I source
command does not work when executed as
.RB ` :source ';
there is no way to use the
.RB ` :append ',
.RB ` :change ',
and
.RB ` :insert '
commands, since it is not possible to give
more than one line of input to a
.RB ` : '
escape.  To use these on a
.RB ` :global '
you must
.B Q
to
.I ex
command mode,
execute them, and then reenter the screen editor with
.B vi
or
.BR open .
.LP
When using the
.B \-r
option to recover a file, you must write the recovered
text before quitting or you will lose it.
.B vi
does not prevent you
from exiting without writing unless you make changes.
.LP
.B vi
does not adjust when the SunView window in which it runs is
resized.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.LP
The encryption facilities of
.B vi
are not available on software
shipped outside the U.S.
