.\" @(#)vswap.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH VSWAP 1 "10 January 1988"
.SH NAME
vswap \- convert a foreign font file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/vswap
[
.B \-r
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I Versatec
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "vswap command"  ""  "\fLvswap\fP \(em convert foreign font files"
.IX  "convert foreign font files"  ""  "convert foreign font files \(em \fLvswap\fP"
.IX  "font" "files, convert foreign \(em \fLvswap\fP"
.LP
Without the
.B -r
option,
.B vswap
translates its standard input (which must be a
.BR vfont (5)
file in the reversed-byte order) into a locally correct
.I vfont
file on its standard output.  With the
.B -r
option,
.B vswap
translates its standard input (which must be a
.B vfont
file in the local-byte order) into a byte-reversed
.B vfont
file on its
standard output.
.LP
The
.SM UNIX
system 
.B vfont
representation for fonts is a binary file
containing machine-dependent elements \(em short (16-bit)
integers, in particular.
There are (at least) two common ways of representing a 16-bit integer.
A program compiled
on a
.SM VAX
will expect the
.SM VAX
format, while the same program compiled
on a machine using a Motorola 68000-family processor or a SPARC processor
will expect the reverse format.
.B vswap
can be used to convert font files created on a
.SM VAX
to the format
required to use them on Suns.  (All Suns use the same
.B vfont
format, regardless of the native byte order of the processor, including
Suns that use the Intel 80386 processor.  Programs that will be run on Suns
that use the Intel 80386 processor must be aware of this, and convert the
machine-dependent elements when they read or write
.B vfont
files.)
It can also convert Sun-format font files to
.SM VAX
format (with the
.B \-r
option).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR troff (1),
.BR vfont (5)
.SH BUGS
A machine-independent font format should be defined.
