.\" @(#)vtroff.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH VTROFF 1 "21 December 1987"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
vtroff \- troff to a raster plotter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vtroff
[
.B \-wx
]
[
.B \-F
.I majorfont
]
[
.BI \-l length
]
[
.B \-123
.I minorfont
]
.I troff-arguments
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I Versatec
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "vtroff command"  ""  "\fLvtroff\fP \(em format document for raster printer"
.IX  "format document for raster printer"  ""  "format document for raster printer \(em \fLvtroff\fP"
.IX  "document production"  vtroff  ""  "\fLvtroff\fP \(em format document for raster printer"
.LP
.B vtroff
runs
.BR troff (1)
sending its output through various programs
to produce typeset output on a raster plotter
such as a Benson-Varian or a Versatec.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-w
Specify that a wide output device be used; the default
is to use a narrow device.
.TP
.B \-x
Simulate photo-typesetter output exactly.
As with,  using the width tables for the C.A.T. photo-typesetter.
.TP
.BI \-F " fontname"
Specify
.I fontname
as the desired font.
This will place normal, italic and
bold versions of the font on positions 1, 2, and 3.
The default font is a Hershey font. 
argument and then the font name.
.TP
.BI \-l length
Split the output
onto successive pages every
.I length
inches rather than the default 11 inches.
.TP
.BI \-123 " minorfont"
Place a font only on a single position specified by
.BI \- n
(where
.I n
is
.BR 1 ,
.BR 2,
or
.BR 3 )
and the minor font name.  A
.B \&.r
will be added to the minor font name if needed. 
Thus
.RS
.RS
.B vtroff\ \-ms\ paper
.RE
.RE
.IP
will set a paper in the Hershey font, while
.RS
.RS
.B vtroff\ \-F\ nonie\ \-ms\ paper
.RE
.RE
.IP
will set the paper in the (sans serif) nonie font.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.vcat
default font mounts and bug fixes
.TP
.B /usr/lib/fontinfo/*
fixes for other fonts
.TP
.B /usr/lib/vfont
directory containing fonts
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR troff (1),
.BR vfont (5)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Since some macro packages work correctly only if the fonts
named R, I, B, and S are mounted, and since the Versatec fonts
have different widths for individual characters than the fonts
found on the typesetter, the following dodge was necessary:
If you do not use the
.B \&.fp
.B troff
directive
then you get the widths of the standard typesetter fonts
suitable for shipping the output of
troff over the network to the computer
center A machine for phototypesetting.
If, however, you remount the R, I, B and S fonts, then you get
the width tables for the Versatec.
