.\" @(#)vwidth.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH VWIDTH 1 "21 December 1987"
.UC
.SH NAME
vwidth \- make a troff width table for a font
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/vwidth
\fIfontfile pointsize\fB >
ft\fIxx\fP.c\fR
.LP
.B cc -c ft\fIxx\fP.c
.LP
.B mv ft\fIxx\fP.o /usr/lib/font/ft\fIxx\fP
.SH AVAILABILITY
This command is available with the
.I Versatec
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "vwidth command"  ""  "\fLvwidth\fP \(em make font width table"
.IX  "create" "font width table \(em \fLvwidth\fP"
.IX  "document production"  vwidth  ""  "\fLvwidth\fP \(em make font width table"
.IX  font  vwidth  ""  "\fLvwidth\fP \(em make font width table"
.LP
.B vwidth
translates from the width information stored in the
.B vfont
style format to the format expected by
.BR troff (1)
\(em an object file in
.BR a.out (5)
format.
.B troff
should look directly in the font file but it doesn't.
.LP
.B vwidth
should be used after editing a font with
.BR fontedit (1).
It is not necessary to use 
.B vwidth
unless you have made a change
that would affect the width tables.
Such changes include numerically editing the width field,
adding a new character,
and moving or copying a character to a new position.
It is
.I not
always necessary to use
.B vwidth
if the physical width of the glyph
(for instance the number of columns in the
bit matrix) has changed, but if it has changed much
the logical width should probably be changed and
.B vwidth
run.
.LP
.B vwidth
produces a
.B C
program on its standard output.
This program should be run through the
.B C
compiler and the object (that is, the
.B .o
file) saved.
The resulting file should be placed in
.B /usr/lib/font
in the file
.RI ft xx
where
.I xx
is a one or two letter code that is the logical (internal to
.BR troff )
font name.  This name can be found by looking in the file
.BI /usr/lib/fontinfo/ fname *
where
.I fname
is the external name of the font.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/font
.TP
.B a.out
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR troff (1),
.BR vtroff (1),
.BR fontedit (1),
.BR a.out (5),
.BR vfont (5)
