.\" @(#)wc.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2 6.2 83/09/02
.TH WC 1 "2 October 1989"
.SH NAME
wc \- display a count of lines, words and characters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wc
[
.B \-lwc
] [
.I filename
\&.\|.\|.
]
.IX  "wc command"  ""  "\fLwc\fP \(em count lines, words, characters in file"
.IX  "count lines, words, characters in file"  ""  "count lines, words, characters in file \(em \fLwc\fP"
.IX  lines "count \(em \fLwc\fP"
.IX  "words in file, count \(em \fLwc\fP"
.IX  "characters in file, count \(em \fLwc\fP"
.IX  file  "count lines, words, characters in"  ""  "count lines, words, characters in \(em \fLwc\fP"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wc
counts lines, words, and characters in
.IR filename s,
or in the standard input if no
.I filename
appears.  It also keeps a total count for all named files.
A word is a string of characters delimited by
.SM SPACE\s0,
.SM TAB\s0,
or
.SM NEWLINE\s0
characters.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
When
.IR filename s
are specified on the command line,
their names will be printed along with the counts.
.LP
The default is
.B \-lwc
(count lines, words, and characters).
.TP
.B l
Count lines.
.TP
.B w
Count words.
.TP
.B c
Count characters.
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.nf
.ft B
example%
wc /usr/share/man/man1/{csh.1,sh.1,telnet.1}
.if t .ta +8nR +8nR +8nR +2n
.if n .ta 8R 16R 24R 26
	1876	11223	65895	/usr/share/man/man1/csh.1
	674	3310	20338	/usr/share/man/man1/sh.1
	260	1110	6834	/usr/share/man/man1/telnet.1
	2810	15643	93067	total
example%
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
The environment variables
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.B \s-1LC\s0_default
control the character classification
throughout
.BR wc .
On entry to
.BR wc ,
these environment variables are checked in the
following order:
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.BR \s-1LC\s0_default.
When a valid value is found,
remaining environment variables for character classification
are ignored.
For example, a new setting for
.B \s-1LANG\s0
does not override the current valid character
classification rules of
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 .
When none of the values is valid,
the shell character
classification defaults to the 
.SM POSIX.1 \*(lqC\*(rq
locale.
