.\" @(#)who.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH WHO 1 "23 September 1987"
.SH NAME
who \- who is logged in on the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B who
[
.B who-file
] [
.B am i
]
.IX  "who command"  ""  "\fLwho\fP \(em who is logged in"
.IX  users  who  ""  "\fLwho\fP \(em who is logged in"
.IX  login  who  ""  "\fLwho\fP \(em who is logged in"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Used without arguments,
.B who
lists the login name, terminal name, and
login time for each current user.
.B who
gets this information
from the
.B /etc/utmp
file.
.LP
If a filename argument is given, the named
file is examined instead of
.BR /etc/utmp .
Typically the named file is
.BR /var/adm/wtmp ,
which contains a record of all logins
since it was created.  In this case,
.B who
lists logins, logouts, and crashes.  Each login is listed
with user name, terminal name (with
.B /dev/
suppressed), and date and time.
Logouts produce a similar line without a user name.
Reboots produce a line
with
.RB ` \s+2~\s0 '
in place of the device name, and a fossil time indicating when the
system went down.  Finally, the adjacent pair of entries
.RB ` |'
and
.RB ` } '
indicate the system-maintained time just before and after a
.B date
command changed the system's idea of the time.
.LP
With two arguments, as in
.RB ` "who am i" '
(and also
.RB ` "who is who" '),
.B who
tells who you are logged in as:  it displays your
hostname,
login name, terminal name, and login time.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft B
example% who am i
example!ralph	ttyp0	Apr 27 11:24
example%
.sp
example% who
mktg	  ttym0	Apr 27 11:11
gwen	  ttyp0	Apr 27 11:25
ralph	  ttyp1	Apr 27 11:30
example%
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/utmp
.TP
.B /var/adm/wtmp
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR login (1),
.BR w (1),
.BR whoami (1),
.BR utmp (5V),
.BR locale (5)
