.\" @(#)whois.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH WHOIS 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
whois \- TCP/IP Internet user name directory service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B whois
[
.B \-h
.I host
]
.I identifier
.IX  "whois command"  ""  "\fLwhois\fP \(em Internet directory service"
.IX  Internet "directory service \(em \fLwhois\fP"
.IX  TCP/IP "Internet directory service \(em \fLwhois\fP"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B whois
searches for an
.SM TCP/IP
directory entry for an
.I identifier
which is either a name
(such as \*(lqSmith\*(rq) or a handle (such as \*(lq\s-1SRI-NIC\s0\*(rq).
You can force a name-only search by preceding the name with a period;
you can force a handle-only search by preceding the handle with an
exclamation point. See
.SM EXAMPLES\s0.
.LP
If you are searching for a group or
organization entry, you can have the
entire membership list of the group displayed with the record by
preceding the argument with
.RB ` * '
(an asterisk).
.LP
You may of course use an exclamation point and asterisk, or a period
and asterisk together.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.B example% whois Smith
.LP
looks for name or handle
.BR \s-1SMITH\s0 .
.IP
.B example% whois \e!\s-1SRI-NIC\s0
.LP
looks for handle
.SM SRI-NIC
only.
.TP
.IP
.B example% whois '.Smith, John'
.LP
looks for name
``John Smith''
only.
.LP
Adding
.RB ` .\|.\|. '
to the name or handle argument will match anything from
that point; that is,
`\fB\s-1ZU\s0\fP.\|.\|.'
will match
\fB\s-1ZUL\s0\fP,
\fB\s-1ZUM\s0\fP,
etc.
.\".SH FILES
.\"/usr/doc/local/netinfo/rfc812
.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\"RFC 812:  NICNAME/WHOIS
