.\" @(#)write.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH WRITE 1 "2 October 1989"
.SH NAME
write \- write a message to another user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B write
.I username
[
.I ttyname
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "write command"  ""  "\fLwrite\fP \(em write to another user"
.IX  user  "write to another"  ""  "write to another \(em \fLwrite\fP"
.IX  communications  write  ""  "\fLwrite\fP \(em write to another user"
.LP
.B write
copies lines from your standard input to
.IR username 's
screen.
.LP
When you type a
.B write
command, the person you are writing to sees
a message like this:
.IP
.BI "Message from " hostname ! yourname " on " yourttyname " at hh:mm .\|.\|."
.LP
After typing the
.B write
command, enter the text of your message.
What you type appears line-by-line on the other user's screen.
Conclude by typing an
.SM EOF
indication (\s-1CTRL-D\s0)
or an interrupt.
At this point
.B write
displays
.SM EOF
on your recipient's screen and exits.
.LP
To write to a user who is logged in more than once, use the
.I ttyname
argument to indicate the appropriate terminal name.
.LP
You can grant or deny other users permission
to write to you by using the
.B mesg
command (default allows writing).
Certain commands,
.BR nroff (1)
and
.BR pr (1V)
in particular, do not allow anyone to write to you while you are using
them in order to prevent messy output.
.LP
If
.B write
finds the character
.RB ` ! '
at the beginning of a line, it
calls the shell to execute the rest of the line as a command.
.LP
Two people can carry on a conversation by
\*(lqwriting\*(rq to each other.
When the other person receives the message
indicating you are writing to him, he can then
.B write
back to you if he wishes.
However, since you are now simultaneously typing and receiving
messages, you end up with garbage on your screen unless you work out
some sort of scheduling scheme with your partner.
You might try the following conventional protocol:
when you first write to another user, wait
for him to write back before starting to send.
Each person should end each message with a distinctive signal \(em
.B -o-
(for \*(lqover\*(rq) is standard \(em so that the other
knows when to begin a reply.
To end your conversation, type
.B -oo-
(for \*(lqover and out\*(rq) before
finishing the conversation.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Here is an example of a short dialog between two people on different
terminals.
Two users called \*(lqHorace\*(rq and
\*(lqEudora\*(rq are logged in on a system
called \*(lqjones\*(rq.
To illustrate the process, both users' screens are shown side-by-side:
.nf
.ta 10n +\w'\fBHow about the beach on Sunday? -o-'u+6n
Eudora's Terminal	Horace's Terminal
.ta \w'\fBThen how about the beach on Sunday? -o-'u+2n
	\fIHorace is staring at his screen\fP
.ft B
jones% write  horace
how about a squash game tonight? -o-
	Message from jones!eudora on tty09 at 17:05 .\|.\|.
	how about a squash game tonight? -o-
	jones% write  eudora
	I'm playing tiddlywinks with Carmeline -o-
Message from jones!horace on tty03 at 17:06 .\|.\|.
I'm playing tiddlywinks with Carmeline -o-
How about the beach on Sunday? -o-
	How about the beach on Sunday? -o-
	Sorry, I'm washing my tent that day -o-
Sorry, I'm washing my tent that day -o-
See you when I get back from Peru -oo-
	See you when I get back from Peru -oo-
^D
jones%	\s-1EOF\s0
.ft B
	I hear rack of llama is very tasty -oo-
	^D
I hear rack of llama is very tasty -oo-
\s-1EOF\s0	\fBjones%
.ft R
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
The environment variables
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.B \s-1LC\s0_default
control the character classification
throughout
.BR write .
On entry to
.BR write ,
these environment variables are checked in the
following order:
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 ,
.BR \s-1LANG\s0 ,
and
.BR \s-1LC\s0_default.
When a valid value is found,
remaining environment variables for character classification
are ignored.
For example, a new setting for
.B \s-1LANG\s0
does not override the current valid character
classification rules of
.BR \s-1LC_CTYPE\s0 .
When none of the values is valid,
the shell character
classification defaults to the 
.SM POSIX.1 \*(lqC\*(rq
locale.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/utmp
to find user
.TP
.B /usr/bin/sh
to execute
.B !
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mail (1),
.BR mesg (1),
.BR pr (1V),
.BR talk (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR who (1),
.BR locale (5)
