.\" @(#)xargs.1v 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from S5R2 6.2 9/2/83
.TH XARGS 1V "17 September 1989"
.SH NAME
xargs \- construct the arguments list(s) and execute a command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xargs
[
.B \-ptx
] [
.BI \-e eofstr
] [
.BI \-i replstr
] [
.BI \-l number
] [
.BI \-n number
] [
.BI \-s size
]
.if t .ti +.5i
[
.I command
[\|\fIinitial-arguments\fR
] ]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I System V
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX xargs "" "\fLxargs\fR \(em construct and use initial arguments lists"
.LP
.B xargs
combines the fixed
.I initial-arguments
with arguments read from the standard input, to execute the specified
.I command
one or more times.
The number of arguments read for each
.I command
invocation, and the manner in which they are combined
are determined by the options specified.
.LP
.IR command ,
which may be a shell file,
is searched for using one's
.BR \s-1$PATH\s+1 .
If
.I command
is omitted,
.B /usr/bin/echo
is used.
.LP
Arguments read in from the standard input are defined to be contiguous
strings of characters delimited by white space.
Empty lines are always discarded.
Blanks and tabs may be embedded as part of an argument if they
are escaped or quoted.
Characters enclosed in quotes (single or double) are taken literally,
and the delimiting quotes are removed.  Outside of quoted strings,
a
.RB ` \e '
(backslash) will escape the character it precedes.
.LP
Each arguments-list is constructed starting with the
.IR initial-arguments ,
followed by some number of arguments read from the standard input
(Exception: see the
.B \-i
option).
Options
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-l ,
and
.BR \-n
determine how arguments are selected for each command invocation.
When none of these options are coded, the
.I initial-arguments
are followed by arguments read continuously from the standard input
until an internal buffer is full, and then
.I command
is executed with the accumulated arguments.
This process is repeated until there are none left.
When there are option conflicts (for instance,
.B \-l
versus
.BR \-n "),"
the last option takes precedence.
.LP
.B xargs
will terminate if it receives a return code of
.BR \-1 ,
or if it cannot execute
.IR command .
When
.I command
is a shell script,
it should explicitly
.B exit
(see
.BR sh (1))
with an appropriate value to avoid accidentally returning with
.BR \-1 .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-p
Prompt mode.
The user is asked whether to execute
.I command
each invocation.
Trace mode
.RB ( \-t )
is turned on to print the command instance to be executed,
followed by a
.B ?\|.\|.\|.
prompt.
A reply of
.B y
(optionally followed by anything) will execute the command;
anything else, including
just a
.SM return\s0,
skips that particular invocation of
.IR command .
.TP
.B \-t
Trace mode.
The
.I command
and each constructed argument list are echoed to file
descriptor 2 just prior to their execution.
.TP
.B \-x
Terminate
.B xargs
if any argument list would be greater than
.I size
characters;
.B \-x
is forced by the options
.B \-i
and
.BR \-l .
When neither of the options
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-l ,
or
.B \-n
are coded, the total length of all
arguments must be within the
.I size
limit.
.TP
.BI \-e eofstr
.I eofstr
is taken as the logical
.SM EOF
string.
.RB ` _ '
(underbar) is assumed for
the logical
.B \s-1EOF\s+1
string if
.B \-e
is not coded.  The value
.B \-e
with no
.I eofstr
coded turns off the logical
.B \s-1EOF\s+1
string capability
(underbar is taken literally).
.B xargs
reads the standard input until either
.SM EOF
or the logical
.B \s-1EOF\s+1
string is encountered.
.TP
.BI \-i replstr
Insert mode:
.I command
is executed for each line from the standard input,
taking the entire line as a single argument, inserting it in
.I initial-arguments
for each occurrence of
.IR replstr .
A maximum of 5 arguments in
.I initial-arguments
may each contain one or more instances of
.IR replstr .
.SM SPACE
and
.SM TAB
characters at the beginning of each line are thrown away.
Constructed arguments may not grow
larger than 255 characters, and option
.B \-x
is also forced.
.B "{\|}"
is assumed for
.I replstr
if not specified.
.TP
.BI \-l number
.I command
is executed for each nonempty
.I number
lines of arguments from the standard input.
The last invocation of
.I command
will be with fewer lines of arguments if fewer than
.I number
remain.
A line is considered to end with the first
.SM NEWLINE
.I unless
the last character of the line is a
.SM SPACE
or a
.SM TAB\s0;
a trailing
.SM SPACE
or
.SM TAB
signals continuation through the next non-empty line.
If
.I number
is omitted, 1 is assumed.
The
.B \-x
option is forced.
.ne 6
.TP
.BI \-n number
Execute
.I command
using as many standard input arguments as possible, up to
.I number
arguments maximum.
Fewer arguments will be used if their total size is greater than
.I size
characters, and for the last invocation if there are fewer than
.I number
arguments remaining.
If option
.B \-x
is also coded, each
.I number
arguments must fit in the
.I size
limitation, else
.B xargs
terminates execution.
.TP
.BI \-s size
The maximum total size of each argument list is set to
.I size
characters;
.I size
must be a positive integer less than or equal to 470. If
.B \-s
is not coded, 470 is taken as the default.
Note: the character count for
.I size
includes one extra character for each
argument and the count of characters in the command name.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following will move all files from directory
.B $1
to directory
.BR $2 ,
and echo each move command just before doing it:
.LP
.RS
.B "ls \|$1 \|| \|xargs \|\-i \|\-t \|mv \|$1/{\|} \|$2/{\|}"
.RE
.LP
The following will combine the output of
the parenthesized commands onto one line,
which is then echoed to the end of file
.BR log :
.LP
.RS
.B
(logname; \|date; \|echo \|$0 \|$\(**) \|| \|xargs \|>>log
.RE
.LP
The user is asked which files in the
current directory are to be archived
and archives them into
.BR arch (1)
one at a time,
or many at a time.
.LP
.RS
.TP \(bu
.B "ls \|| \|xargs \|\-p \|\-l \|ar \|r \|arch"
.PD 0
.TP \(bu
.B "ls \|| \|xargs \|\-p \|\-l \|| \|xargs \|ar \|r \|arch"
.PD
.RE
.LP
The following will execute
.BR diff (1)
with successive
pairs of arguments originally typed as shell arguments:
.IP
.B "echo \|$\(** \|| \|xargs \|\-n2 \|diff"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR arch (1),
.BR diff (1),
.BR sh (1)
