.\" @(#)xsend.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 6.1 4/29/85
.TH XSEND 1 "9 September 1987"
.SH NAME
xsend, xget, enroll \- send or receive secret mail
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xsend
.I username
.LP
.B xget
.LP
.B enroll
.IX  "xsend command"  ""  "\fLxsend\fP \(em send secret mail"
.IX  "xget command"  ""  "\fLxget\fP \(em receive secret mail"
.IX  "enroll command"  ""  "\fLenroll\fP \(em enroll for secret mail"
.IX  send "secret mail \(em \fLxsend\fP"
.IX  "receive secret mail"  ""  "receive secret mail \(em \fLenroll\fP"
.IX  "secret mail"  send  ""  "send \(em \fLxsend\fP"
.IX  "secret mail"  receive  ""  "receive \(em \fLenroll\fP"
.IX  "secret mail"  "enroll for"  ""  "enroll for \(em \fLenroll\fP"
.IX  mail  "send secret"  ""  "send secret mail \(em \fLxsend\fP"
.IX  mail  "receive secret"  ""  "receive secret mail \(em \fLenroll\fP"
.IX  mail  "enroll for secret"  ""  "enroll for secret \(em \fLenroll\fP"
.IX  "encrypted mail"  send  ""  "send \(em \fLxsend\fP"
.IX  "encrypted mail"  receive  ""  "receive \(em \fLenroll\fP"
.IX  "encrypted mail"  "enroll for"  ""  "enroll for \(em \fLenroll\fP"
.IX  communications  xsend  ""  "\fLxsend\fP \(em send secret mail"
.IX  communications  xget  ""  "\fLxget\fP \(em receive secret mail"
.IX  communications  enroll  ""  "\fLenroll\fP \(em enroll for secret mail"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These commands implement a secure communication
channel, which is like
.BR mail (1),
but no one can read the messages except the intended recipient.
The method embodies a public-key cryptosystem using knapsacks.
.LP
To receive messages, use
.BR enroll ;
it asks you for a password that you must subsequently quote
in order to receive secret mail.
.LP
To receive secret mail, use
.BR xget .
It asks for your password, then gives you the messages.
.LP
To send secret mail, use
.BR xsend
in the same manner as the ordinary mail command.
Unlike
.BR mail ,
.B xsend
accepts only one target.
A message announcing the receipt of secret mail is also sent
by ordinary mail.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /var/spool/secretmail/*.key
keys
.TP
.B /var/spool/secretmail/*.[0-9]
messages
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mail (1)
.SH BUGS
.LP
The knapsack public-key cryptosystem is known to be breakable.
.LP
Secret mail should be integrated with ordinary mail.
.LP
The announcement of secret mail makes \*(lqtraffic analysis\*(rq possible.
