.\" @(#)yacc.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH YACC 1 "1 February 1989"
.SH NAME
yacc \- yet another compiler-compiler: parsing program generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yacc
[
.B \-dvlt
]
.I grammar
.IX  "yacc command"  ""  "\fLyacc\fP \(em parser generator"
.IX  "compiler generators"  yacc ""  "\fLyacc\fP \(em parser generator"
.IX  "programming tools"  yacc  ""  "\fLyacc\fP \(em parser generator"
.IX  "parser generator"  ""  "parser generator \(em \fLyacc\fP"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B yacc
converts a context\-free grammar into a set of tables for a simple
automaton which executes an
.SM LR\s0(\&1)
parsing algorithm.  The grammar may
be ambiguous,
in which case specified precedence
rules may be used to break those ambiguities.
.LP
The output file,
.BR y.tab.c ,
must be compiled by the C compiler to produce a function named
.BR yyparse (\|).
The
.BR yyparse  (\|)
function must be loaded with the lexical analyzer
.BR yylex (\|),
as well as
.BR main (\|)
and
the error handling routine
.BR yyerror (\|).
These routines must be supplied by the user;
.BR lex (1)
is useful for creating lexical analyzers usable by
.BR yacc \-produced
parsers.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Generate the file
.B y.tab.h
with the
.B define
statements that associate the
.BR yacc \-assigned
\*(lqtoken codes\*(rq with the user\-declared \*(lqtoken names\*(rq
so that source files other than
.B y.tab.c
can access the token codes.
.TP
.B \-v
Prepare the file
.B y.output
containing a description of the parsing tables
and a report on conflicts generated by ambiguities in the grammar.
.TP
.B \-l
Generate
.B y.tab.c
containing no numbered line directives.
.TP
.B \-t
Set the preprocessor symbol
.BR yydebug ,
so
.B y.tab.c
will be compiled with runtime debugging code.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B y.output
description of parsing tables and conflict report
.TP
.B y.tab.c
output parser
.TP
.B y.tab.h
defines for token names
.TP
.B yacc.tmp, yacc.acts
temporary files
.TP
.B /usr/lib/yaccpar
parser prototype for C programs
.TP
.B /usr/5lib/liby.a
library provides primitive routines
.B main(\|)
and
.B yyerror(\|)
to facilitate the initial use of
.BR yacc .
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cc (1V),
.BR lex (1)
.LP
.TX PUL
.  \".I "YACC \- Yet Another Compiler Compiler"
.  \"by S. C. Johnson.
.br
.I "LR Parsing"
by A. V. Aho and S. C. Johnson, Computing Surveys, June, 1974
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The number of reduce\-reduce and shift\-reduce conflicts
is reported on the standard output; a more detailed report is
found in the
.B y.output
file.
Similarly, it is also reported 
if some rules are not reachable from the
start symbol.
.SH NOTES
Because the
.BR cc (1V)
command does not generate or support 8-bit symbol names,
it is inappropriate to make
.B yacc
8-bit clean.
See
.BR cc (1V)
for an explanation about why
.B cc
is not 8-bit clean.
.SH BUGS
Because file names are fixed, no more than one 
.B yacc
process should be active in a given directory at a time.
