.\" @(#)ypcat.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH YPCAT 1 "17 December 1987"
.SH NAME
ypcat \- print values in a NIS data base
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypcat
[
.B \-kt
] [
.B \-d
.I  domainname
]
.I  mname
.LP
.B ypcat
.B \-x
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ypcat command"  ""  "\fLypcat\fP \(em print values from NIS database"
.IX  print "values from NIS database \(em \fLypcat\fP"
.IX  "YP"  "print values from database"  ""  "print values from database \(em \fLypcat\fP"
.IX  "NIS"  "print values from database"  ""  "print values from database \(em \fLypcat\fP"
.LP
.B ypcat
prints out values in a 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
map specified by
.IR mname ,
which may be either a
map name or a map nickname .
Since
.B ypcat
uses the
.SM NIS
service,
no
.SM NIS
server is specified.
.LP
To look at the network-wide password database,
.BR passwd.byname ,
(with the nickname
.BR passwd ).
type in:
.IP
.B ypcat passwd
.LP
Refer to
.BR ypfiles (5)
and
.BR ypserv (8)
for an overview of the 
.SM NIS
service.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-k
Display the keys for those maps in which the values are null
or the key is not part of the value.
.TP
.B \-t
Inhibit translation of
.I mname
to
map name.
For example,
.RB ` "ypcat \-t passwd" '
will fail because there is no map named
.BR passwd ,
whereas
.B ` "ypcat passwd" '
will be translated to
.BR ` "ypcat passwd.byname" '.
.TP
.BI \-d " domainname"
Specify a domain other than the default domain.
The default domain is returned by
.IR domainname.
.TP
.B \-x
Display the map nickname table.
This lists the nicknames
.RI ( mname s)
the command knows of, and indicates the
.I mapname
associated with each nickname.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR domainname (1),
.BR ypmatch (1),
.BR ypfiles (5),
.BR ypserv (8)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
The name Yellow Pages is a registered trademark in the United Kingdom
of British Telecommunications plc,
and may not be used without permission.
