.\" @(#)ypmatch.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH YPMATCH 1 "17 December 1987"
.SH NAME
ypmatch \- print the value of one or more keys from a NIS map
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypmatch
[
.B \-d
.I domain
] [
.B \-k
] [
.B \-t
]
.I key
\&.\|.\|.
.I mname
.LP
.B ypmatch
.B \-x
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX ypmatch "" "\fLypmatch\fR \(em match NIS keys"
.LP
.B ypmatch
prints the values associated with one or more keys from the
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
map specified by
.IR mname ,
which may be either a
.I mapname
or an map nickname.
.LP
Multiple keys can be specified; the same map will be searched for all .
The keys must be exact values insofar as capitalization and length
are concerned. 
No pattern matching is available.
If a key is not matched, a diagnostic message is produced.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Specify a domain other than the default domain.
.TP
.B \-k
Before printing the value of a key,
print the key itself, followed by a
.RB ` : '
colon .  This is useful only if the keys are not duplicated in the
values, or you've specified so many keys that the output could
be confusing.
.TP
.B \-t
Inhibit translation of nickname to
.IR mapname .
For example,
.RB ` "ypmatch \-t zippy passwd " '
will fail because there is no map named
.BR passwd ,
while
.RB ` "ypmatch zippy passwd " '
will be translated to
.BR ` "ypmatch zippy passwd.byname " '.
.TP
.B \-x
Display the map nickname table.
This lists the nicknames
.BR  (\fImnames\fR)
the command knows of, and indicates the
.I mapname
associated with each nickname.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ypcat (1),
.BR ypfiles (5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
The name Yellow Pages is a registered trademark in the United Kingdom
of British Telecommunications plc,
and may not be used without permission.
