.\" @(#)yppasswd.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI;
.TH YPPASSWD 1 "20 January 1990"
.SH NAME
yppasswd \- change your network password in the NIS database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yppasswd
[
.I username
]
.LP
.B ypchfn
[
.I username
]
.LP
.B ypchsh
[
.I username
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "yppasswd command"  ""  "\fLyppasswd\fP \(em change login password in NIS"
.IX  "change" "login password in NIS \(em \fLyppasswd\fP"
.IX  "YP"  "change login password in"  ""  "change login password in \(em \fLyppasswd\fP"
.IX  "NIS"  "change login password in"  ""  "change login password in \(em \fLyppasswd\fP"
.IX  "password"  "change in NIS"  ""  "change in NIS \(em \fLyppasswd\fP"
.IX  "login password"  "change in NIS"  ""  "change in NIS \(em \fLyppasswd\fP"
.LP
.B yppasswd
changes (or installs) the network password 
associated with the user
.IR username
(your own name by default)
in the
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0) database.
The 
.SM NIS
password may be different
from the local one on your own machine.
See
.BR passwd (1).
.LP
.B ypchfn
changes the full name associated with 
.I username
in the 
.SM NIS
database.
.LP
.B ypchsh
changes the login shell associated with
.I username
in the 
.SM NIS
database.
.LP
.B yppasswd
prompts for the old 
.SM NIS
password, and then for the new one.
You must type in the old password correctly for the change to
take effect.
The new password must be typed twice, to forestall
mistakes.
.LP
New passwords must be at least four characters long, if they use
a sufficiently rich alphabet, and at least six characters long
if monocase.  These rules are relaxed if you are insistent enough.
Only the owner of the name or the super-user may change a password;
in either case you must prove you know the old password.
.LP
The 
.SM NIS
password daemon,
.BR yppasswdd (8C)
must be running on your
.SM NIS
server in order for the new password
to take effect.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR passwd (1),
.BR ypfiles (5),
.BR yppasswdd (8C)
.SH BUGS
.LP
The update protocol passes all the information to the server in
one
.SM RPC
call, without ever looking at it.
Thus if you type in your old password incorrectly,
you will not be notified until
after you have entered your new password.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
The name Yellow Pages is a registered trademark in the United Kingdom
of British Telecommunications plc,
and may not be used without permission.
