.\" @(#)ypwhich.1 1.1 92/07/30 SMI
.TH YPWHICH 1 "19 May 1992"
.SH NAME
ypwhich \- return hostname of NIS server or map master
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypwhich
[
.B \-d
.I domain
] [
.B \-m
.I [ mname
] [
.B \-t
] | [
.B \-V1
|
.B \-V2
]
.I hostname
]
.br
.B ypwhich
.B \-x
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
This command is available with the
.I Networking
software installation option.  Refer to
.TX INSTALL
for information on how to install optional software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ypwhich command"  ""  "\fLypwhich\fP \(em who is NIS server"
.LP
.B ypwhich
tells which \s-1NIS\s0 server supplies
.SM NIS
services to an
.SM NIS
client, or which is the master for a map.
If invoked without arguments, it gives the
.SM NIS
server for the local machine.  If
.I hostname
is specified, that machine is queried
to find out which
.SM NIS
server it is using.
.LP
Refer to
.BR ypfiles (5)
and
.BR ypserv (8)
for an overview of the 
.SM NIS
services.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Use
.I domain
instead of the default domain.
.TP
.B \-V1
Which server is serving v.1
.SM NIS
protocol-speaking client processes.
.TP
.B \-V2
Which server is serving v.2
.SM NIS
protocol client processes.
.IP
If neither version is specified,
.B ypwhich
attempts to locate the server that supplies the
(current) v.2 services.  If there is no v.2 server currently
bound,
.B ypwhich
then attempts to locate the server supplying the v.1 services.
Since
.SM NIS
servers and
.SM NIS
clients are both backward compatible,
the user need seldom be concerned about
which version is currently in use.
.TP
.BI \-t
Inhibit nickname translation;
useful if there is a
.I mapname
identical to a nickname.
This is not true of any Sun-supplied map.
.TP
.B \-m
Find the master
.SM NIS
server for a map.  No
.I hostname
can be specified with the
.B \-m 
option.
.I mname
can be a mapname, or a nickname for a map.  When
.I mname
is omitted, produce a list of available maps.
.TP
.B \-x
Display the map nickname table.
This lists the nicknames
.RI ( mnames )
the command knows of, and indicates the
.I mapname
associated with each
nickname.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ypfiles (5),
.BR rpcinfo (8C),
.BR ypserv (8),
.BR ypset (8)
.SH NOTES
.LP
\s-1NIS\s0 was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages (\s-1YP\s0).  The
functionality of the two remains the same; only the name has changed.
The name Yellow Pages is a registered trademark in the United Kingdom
of British Telecommunications plc, and may not be used without
permission.
